"""Enough!""   A man emerged from the pool deck office, bringing in a musty cigarette smell. As he stomped, he shoved a handful of mini cookies into his mouth, followed by a swig of Mountain Dew. Parents were not allowed into tryouts, giving this man full rein of adult authority; intimidated, we instantly quieted, leaving only the sounds of the boy’s flesh gently slapping against water and the low hum of our nervous breaths."
"1801. - I have just returned from a visit to my landlord - the solitary neighbour that I shall be troubled with.   This is certainly a beautiful country! In all England, I do not believe that I could have fixed on a situation so   completely removed from the stir of society. A perfect misanthropist's heaven: and Mr. Heathcliff and I are   such a suitable pair to divide the desolation between us. A capital fellow! He little imagined how my heart   warmed towards him when I beheld his black eyes withdraw so suspiciously under their brows, as I rode up,   and when his fingers sheltered themselves, with a jealous resolution, still further in his waistcoat, as I   announced my name."
"About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own situation. We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature, sat in the sledge and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice."
"At last both slept: the fire and the candle went out. For me, the watches of that long night passed in ghastly wakefulness; ear, eye, and mind were alike strained by dread: such dread as children only can feel.  No severe or prolonged bodily illness followed this incident of the red-room; it only gave my nerves a shock of which I feel the reverberation to this day. Yes, Mrs. Reed, to you I owe some fearful pangs of mental suffering, but I ought to forgive you, for you knew not what you did: while rending my heart-strings, you thought you were only uprooting my bad propensities."
"Before passing the threshold, I paused to admire a quantity of grotesque carving lavished over the front, and   especially about the principal door; above which, among a wilderness of crumbling griffins and shameless   little boys, I detected the date '1500,' and the name 'Hareton Earnshaw.' I would have made a few comments,   and requested a short history of the place from the surly owner; but his attitude at the door appeared to   demand my speedy entrance, or complete departure, and I had no desire to aggravate his impatience previous   to inspecting the penetralium."
"Bessie went into the housemaid’s apartment, which was near. I heard her say—  “Sarah, come and sleep with me in the nursery; I daren’t for my life be alone with that poor child to-night: she might die; it’s such a strange thing she should have that fit: I wonder if she saw anything. Missis was rather too hard.”"
"But let me be clear, so you cannot misconstrue my motives: while my journey may seem lonesome, I was never alone in my scars. I was the sole chlorine mermaid on my team, but I was not the only girl to self-mutilate. As proud athletes, it was expected our mutilations were a natural course of action to reach peak condition. Some cut. Some bulked. Some purged. It’s all the same. Together we girls molded our bodies and selves into what Coach Jim wanted. What we wanted."
"Each picture told a story; mysterious often to my undeveloped understanding and imperfect feelings, yet ever profoundly interesting: as interesting as the tales Bessie sometimes narrated on winter evenings, when she chanced to be in good humour; and when, having brought her ironing-table to the nursery hearth, she allowed us to sit about it, and while she got up Mrs. Reed’s lace frills, and crimped her nightcap borders, fed our eager attention with passages of love and adventure taken from old fairy tales and other ballads; or (as at a later period I discovered) from the pages of Pamela, and Henry, Earl of Moreland."
"Folds of scarlet drapery shut in my view to the right hand; to the left were the clear panes of glass, protecting, but not separating me from the drear November day. At intervals, while turning over the leaves of my book, I studied the aspect of that winter afternoon. Afar, it offered a pale blank of mist and cloud; near a scene of wet lawn and storm-beat shrub, with ceaseless rain sweeping away wildly before a long and lamentable blast.    I returned to my book—Bewick’s History of British Birds: the letterpress thereof I cared little for, generally speaking; and yet there were certain introductory pages that, child as I was, I could not pass quite as a blank. They were those which treat of the haunts of sea-fowl; of “the solitary rocks and promontories” by them only inhabited; of the coast of Norway, studded with isles from its southern extremity, the Lindeness, or Naze, to the North Cape—    “Where the Northern Ocean, in vast whirls,  Boils round the naked, melancholy isles  Of farthest Thule; and the Atlantic surge  Pours in among the stormy Hebrides.”"
"He chucked the bottle of Mountain Dew toward us. We collectively ducked, and the empty bottle bounced as it hit the tiled floor.   He began pacing back and forth. “I’m your coach. Call me Jim. If you want to make it on the team, you better listen to me.” He fingered his whistle, his large meaty hands obscuring it from sight. He blew a loud shrill. I clapped my hands over my ears. The boy next to me snickered."
"He stopped at the pool’s edge, between our two rows. His fists were clenched, and his jaw was tight as he ground his teeth. A twitching vein trailed from his neck into the collar of his polo. I stared at him, feeling like I had belly flopped off the diving block into a bottomless pool, and I was sinking down, down, down, with no air in my lungs and no lifeguard on duty. He was scarier than any human male I had ever seen, even scarier than Mr. Sullivan, my third-grade teacher, who showed us National Geographic videos of a ruined Earth during science class. Mr. Sullivan liked to make grand declarations about incoming catastrophic global warming. Because of Mr. Sullivan I couldn’t bear dry summer heat—I craved damp, cold, and rainy days. I craved cold water over hot air."
"I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most distinguished of that republic. My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation. He was respected by all who knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public business. He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a husband and the father of a family."
"I cannot describe Mr. Osborne’s face or his classroom. The tiny details comprising insignificant men like him have long since been discarded from my memory. But I can easily recall the shapes of his greasy fingerprints on my book’s laminated cover. He gave me my first experience in attempting to prove myself to a man, with no avail."
"I cannot tell what sentiment haunted the quite solitary churchyard, with its inscribed headstone; its gate, its two trees, its low horizon, girdled by a broken wall, and its newly-risen crescent, attesting the hour of eventide.    The two ships becalmed on a torpid sea, I believed to be marine phantoms.    The fiend pinning down the thief’s pack behind him, I passed over quickly: it was an object of terror.    So was the black horned thing seated aloof on a rock, surveying a distant crowd surrounding a gallows."
"I do not regret much about my seventeen years as a human girl. Looking back in wistful longing is futile. Though, I will admit, I do perhaps wish I let Cathy kiss me sooner, such as during an inevitable game of Truth or Dare at our end-of-season parties. Girls were always dared to kiss other girls, and I should have taken advantage of the despicable excuse when I had it. Then I would’ve had the memory of her lips against mine to comfort me while I was alone in the hospital, my mermaid tail perfect, but the threat of unraveling so close by."
"I felt an inexpressible relief, a soothing conviction of protection and security, when I knew that there was a stranger in the room, an individual not belonging to Gateshead, and not related to Mrs. Reed. Turning from Bessie (though her presence was far less obnoxious to me than that of Abbot, for instance, would have been), I scrutinised the face of the gentleman: I knew him; it was Mr. Lloyd, an apothecary, sometimes called in by Mrs. Reed when the servants were ailing: for herself and the children she employed a physician."
"I took a seat at the end of the hearthstone opposite that towards which my landlord advanced, and filled up an   interval of silence by attempting to caress the canine mother, who had left her nursery, and was sneaking   wolfishly to the back of my legs, her lip curled up, and her white teeth watering for a snatch. My caress   provoked a long, guttural gnarl.         'You'd better let the dog alone,' growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with a   punch of his foot. 'She's not accustomed to be spoiled - not kept for a pet.' Then, striding to a side door, he   shouted again, 'Joseph!'"
"In five minutes more the cloud of bewilderment dissolved: I knew quite well that I was in my own bed, and that the red glare was the nursery fire. It was night: a candle burnt on the table; Bessie stood at the bed-foot with a basin in her hand, and a gentleman sat in a chair near my pillow, leaning over me."
"In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently talking to someone in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice. Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel. He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island, but a European. When I appeared on deck the master said, “Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea.”"
"It wasn’t just the European mermaids I disliked. I also disagreed with the Chinese mermaids featured in the book. Two of them were dependent on men: One stranded on the sand with no legs, needing a ship captain to carry her back into the water; the other covered in tiny rainbow hairs, marrying a man who stole her from the ocean, losing her voice in the process, returning home to the water after her husband’s death. While I do admire the latter’s rainbow armor, I refuse to follow their male-dependent trajectories."
"Jim began to group us into lanes, herding the taller and older to Lane 1 and the shorter and weaker to Lane 6. I was shunted to Lane 5.   “Okay, everyone. Line up behind the lane.”   I immediately stepped forward, the other kids shuffling behind me. They had proper gear, but I had confidence. I had yearning.   Jim began to pace again. “We’ll start with a simple warmup. When I blow my whistle, the first person can dive in. Count to five after them, and then the next can dive in, and so on. Give me four laps of freestyle to start.”"
"Joseph was an elderly, nay, an old man: very old, perhaps, though hale and sinewy. 'The Lord help us!' he   soliloquised in an undertone of peevish displeasure, while relieving me of my horse: looking, meantime, in   my face so sourly that I charitably conjectured he must have need of divine aid to digest his dinner, and his   pious ejaculation had no reference to my unexpected advent."
"Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral relations of things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes, and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species. The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home. Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She was the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become sullen in my study, rough through the ardour of my nature, but that she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness. And Clerval—could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval? Yet he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring ambition."
"Mr. Osborne, incredulous at my mother-approved precocity, would give me what he called his Five Finger Test: He’d grab the book from my fingers, flip open to a random page, point to a grouping of five words, and challenge me to read it out loud. He’d hold up five fingers as if offering me a high-five, planning to lower a finger with each word I recited wrong, until he’d wield a fist—a fist that never appeared, because I delivered the correct words every time. Yet he continued to steal my book and test me throughout the day, as if he believed I could read only in the morning and forgot how by the afternoon."
"My affection for my guest increases every day. He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief? He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art, yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence."
"My dear Sister,    I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe—and well advanced on my voyage. This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good spirits: my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales, which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not expected.    No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter. One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage.    Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured that for my own sake, as well as yours, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool, persevering, and prudent."
"My favorite folktales in the book were not the most famous. Likely you have heard of Hans Christian Andersen’s and Disney’s The Little Mermaid—I have already told you to forget what you know, but I know you will not, because you are human, and you are eternally trapped in your conventions. But know this then: the Little Mermaid was too desperate, too frivolous. I hated her disregard for her fantastical tail and family, her desire to ruin herself into sea foam for a man open to incest, who loved her like a sister."
"My mother picked me up after tryouts with a Tupperware of halved grapes plucked off their stems. She wrinkled her nose when I climbed into the car. My wet hair perfumed any small space with rotten chlorine. As we drove home, I profusely thanked her for taking me, but she looked nervous that I had fallen in love with a sport. To her, I was not supposed to fall in love. I was supposed to swim well enough to put it on my résumé, to get me into a good school. Love was too powerful a feeling."
"My name was simpler than theirs: Ren, 人, meaning person. Yu, 鱼, meaning fish. Ren Yu was neither a traditional Chinese name nor a typical American English name, but my mother thought it symbolic of the way her first and second language deteriorated from immigration, creating a new language with threads from both.    Ren Yu was an easy name to remember too. My mother believed having a simple name with a simple meaning would help me survive unscathed. Keep me inconspicuous, unnoticed. Yet when Jim made us do icebreakers during the first week of practice, my name drew me special attention. My teammates had trouble with its pronunciation, despite its one syllable.    Brad, thighs and eyebrows as thick as the pool lane ropes, picking his nose: “Your name is Ren? Did you cough?”    Luke, blue eyes crinkled in confusion, scratching his blond head, hands proportionally bigger than the rest of him, effective oars that would help him grow into the fastest boy on our team: “Did you mean to say Jen?”"
"Next day, by noon, I was up and dressed, and sat wrapped in a shawl by the nursery hearth. I felt physically weak and broken down: but my worse ailment was an unutterable wretchedness of mind: a wretchedness which kept drawing from me silent tears; no sooner had I wiped one salt drop from my cheek than another followed. Yet, I thought, I ought to have been happy, for none of the Reeds were there, they were all gone out in the carriage with their mama. Abbot, too, was sewing in another room, and Bessie, as she moved hither and thither, putting away toys and arranging drawers, addressed to me every now and then a word of unwonted kindness. This state of things should have been to me a paradise of peace, accustomed as I was to a life of ceaseless reprimand and thankless fagging; but, in fact, my racked nerves were now in such a state that no calm could soothe, and no pleasure excite them agreeably."
"Nor could I pass unnoticed the suggestion of the bleak shores of Lapland, Siberia, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla, Iceland, Greenland, with “the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone, and those forlorn regions of dreary space,—that reservoir of frost and snow, where firm fields of ice, the accumulation of centuries of winters, glazed in Alpine heights above heights, surround the pole, and concentre the multiplied rigours of extreme cold.” Of these death-white realms I formed an idea of my own: shadowy, like all the half-comprehended notions that float dim through children’s brains, but strangely impressive. The words in these introductory pages connected themselves with the succeeding vignettes, and gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow and spray; to the broken boat stranded on a desolate coast; to the cold and ghastly moon glancing through bars of cloud at a wreck just sinking."
"Sarah came back with her; they both went to bed; they were whispering together for half-an-hour before they fell asleep. I caught scraps of their conversation, from which I was able only too distinctly to infer the main subject discussed.  “Something passed her, all dressed in white, and vanished”—“A great black dog behind him”—“Three loud raps on the chamber door”—“A light in the churchyard just over his grave,” -- etc."
"Several months passed in this manner. Her father grew worse; her time was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and she knelt by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the chamber. He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a relation. Two years after this event Caroline became his wife."
"She dropped me off at the high school, where there was a pool in the basement for tryouts. I was seven years old with the wrong swimsuit and no swim cap. Until that day, the biggest body of water I had been in was our house’s bathtub. Yet when I dove into the pool, I felt like I had arrived home, like my seven years of life until then had been one long cross-country car ride, and the pool was the hot shower to wash off the filth collected from roadside stands and gas station bathrooms. I was liberated, unblemished, and one step closer to becoming the mermaid I always intended to be."
"So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before these papers can come into your possession.    Last Monday (July 31st) we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea-room in which she floated. Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay to, hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather."
"The folktale I loved most was the Passamaquoddy tale of two girls changed into water-snakes. Every Sunday, the two girls went to swim and play in their local lake together, naked, wanton. Men in their village spied on the girls and warned of sin, while, as usual of men, disregarding their own lust and hypocrisy. The girls did not listen, so the men came to snatch them away, intending to fix their purity—and discovered the girls had been transformed into water-snakes, their long hair and girl heads connected to wriggly and reptilian snake tails. The story, colored by colonialist Christian values, was meant as a warning against evil behavior on Sundays, but they didn’t see the truth of the ending. I was convinced the two girls were free, freer than I could ever be. I envied their ability to slip through those men’s grasps. I saw their evolution as a gift, so they could play in the water forever, not beholden to men’s needs or a moralist God’s schedule."
"The instant I laid eyes on the big man, my tutu unraveled, its pink thread leaving my fingers to dangle downward, grazing my thighs. I shivered, confused whether my body’s stimulation was from the breezy kisses of the tutu thread or from the sheer presence of such a man. I never forgot the sensation of our first meeting. My body quaked with each tremor of the ground, corresponding with his stomps. I contemplated how he could make me strong. I hoped to impress him, to thrill him."
"The man pointed to the boy in the water. “You. Get out of the pool. You’re out.”   He switched his anger onto the sister. “You’re out too. Get out. Go home.”   We watched the boy clamber out of the pool. His sister gathered him into her arms. Both were silently crying. Their wet footsteps echoed as they left the pool.   The man surveyed us, his eyebrows creased. There were thick paunches of skin under his eyes, and I winced when the bags twitched over me.   “If any of you make it on the team, you’d better learn to keep your hands to yourself,” he said."
"The next thing I remember is, waking up with a feeling as if I had had a frightful nightmare, and seeing before me a terrible red glare, crossed with thick black bars. I heard voices, too, speaking with a hollow sound, and as if muffled by a rush of wind or water: agitation, uncertainty, and an all-predominating sense of terror confused my faculties. Ere long, I became aware that some one was handling me; lifting me up and supporting me in a sitting posture, and that more tenderly than I had ever been raised or upheld before. I rested my head against a pillow or an arm, and felt easy."
"The third Chinese mermaid in the book was named Nüwa, a deity with a beautiful woman’s face and a serpentine body. Nüwa wandered the Earth after it separated from the Heavens. Though the land was beautiful, decorated with rivers, mountains, trees, and flowers, with many living creatures to accompany her travels, she was lonely, craving a companion with whom she could converse and dance. So she used yellow clay, damp from the riverbanks, to mold shapes with faces, arms, and legs. The figures came alive, laughing and twirling around her, ridding her of her isolation. Every human being has descended from Nüwa’s clay sculptures. While I empathize with Nüwa’s loneliness, and thank her for her contributions to my birth, I disdain her desire for human company—there are many other beings whose camaraderie provides far greater enjoyment than humans’."
"This appearance excited our unqualified wonder. We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed. Shut in, however, by ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the greatest attention.  About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea, and before night the ice broke and freed our ship. We, however, lay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.  "
"We mutilated our hair, cultivating our arm leg pit vagina hair for months like farmers growing wheat, until we cropped it off in one hour, together at the shaving party before the big meet. The razors cut lines down our calves coated in whipped cream, finger pads wrinkled and pruny. We soaped up each other’s backs, an adolescent lesson in Sappho. If you shave my back I’ll shave yours. We emerged from the locker room showers as naked mole rats."
"We were brought up together; there was not quite a year difference in our ages. I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute. Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us nearer together. Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge. She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets; and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home —the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons, tempest and calm, the silence of winter, and the life and turbulence of our Alpine summers—she found ample scope for admiration and delight. While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their causes. The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine. Curiosity, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature, gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the earliest sensations I can remember."
"When I decided, years later, to sprout my tail, it was a hearkening back to the book I loved and the mermaids encased within. Though the pages were torn, the illustrations remained vivid with the legends and depictions of the aquatic adventures I longed for. I reread the pages each night when my eyes grew tired from squinting at the needle during the many hours of sewing practice. I marked each page with bloodstains from my fingertips, gashes where I clutched the needle too tightly—   I’m getting ahead of myself."
"While enjoying a month of fine weather at the sea-coast, I was thrown into the company of a most fascinating   creature: a real goddess in my eyes, as long as she took no notice of me. I 'never told my love' vocally; still, if   looks have language, the merest idiot might have guessed I was over head and ears: she understood me at last,   and looked a return - the sweetest of all imaginable looks. And what did I do? I confess it with shame - shrunk   icily into myself, like a snail; at every glance retired colder and farther; till finally the poor innocent was led to   doubt her own senses, and, overwhelmed with confusion at her supposed mistake, persuaded her mamma to   decamp. By this curious turn of disposition I have gained the reputation of deliberate heartlessness; how   undeserved, I alone can appreciate."
"Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr. Heathcliff's dwelling. 'Wuthering' being a significant provincial   adjective, descriptive of the atmospheric tumult to which its station is exposed in stormy weather. Pure,   bracing ventilation they must have up there at all times, indeed: one may guess the power of the north wind   blowing over the edge, by the excessive slant of a few stunted firs at the end of the house; and by a range of   gaunt thorns all stretching their limbs one way, as if craving alms of the sun. Happily, the architect had   foresight to build it strong: the narrow windows are deeply set in the wall, and the corners defended with large   jutting stones."
"“Do you feel as if you should sleep, Miss?” asked Bessie, rather softly.  Scarcely dared I answer her; for I feared the next sentence might be rough. “I will try.”  “Would you like to drink, or could you eat anything?”  “No, thank you, Bessie.”  “Then I think I shall go to bed, for it is past twelve o’clock; but you may call me if you want anything in the night.”  Wonderful civility this! It emboldened me to ask a question.  “Bessie, what is the matter with me? Am I ill?”  “You fell sick, I suppose, in the red-room with crying; you’ll be better soon, no doubt.”"
"“Ren. You all should be more like Ren,” he declared. My feet, treading water, spazzed in glee. He stuck his hand out for a high-five. I tapped his palm gently, hoisting myself out of the water like a jumping dolphin to reach his height. His hand was moist and humid. His thumb was long enough to wrap around my palm and crush my bones. When we touched, he smiled, and the pool water lapped at my collarbones.   “Beautiful. Just beautiful. And very talented. We’re going to have a great time together,” he whispered, winking.   He blew his whistle.   The other kids dove.   We began."
"“Well, who am I?” he asked.  I pronounced his name, offering him at the same time my hand: he took it, smiling and saying, “We shall do very well by-and-by.” Then he laid me down, and addressing Bessie, charged her to be very careful that I was not disturbed during the night. Having given some further directions, and intimated that he should call again the next day, he departed; to my grief: I felt so sheltered and befriended while he sat in the chair near my pillow; and as he closed the door after him, all the room darkened and my heart again sank: inexpressible sadness weighed it down."
