"When the servant came early in the morning - out of sheer energy and haste, she slammed all the doors so hard, no matter how often she had been asked to avoid it, that no peaceful sleep was possible in the whole apartment from the moment she arrived - she found nothing special at first during her usual brief visit to Gregor. She thought he was lying there immobile on purpose, playing the insulted man; she believed him to have all kinds of sense. As she happened to have the long broom in her hand, she tried to tickle Gregor with it from the doorway. When this also proved unsuccessful, she became angry and poked Gregor a little, and only when she had pushed him out of his seat without any resistance did she take notice. When she soon realized the true state of affairs, she opened her eyes wide, whistled to herself, but didn't linger for long, but tore open the bedroom door and shouted loudly into the darkness: ""Look at it, it's croaked; there it lies, completely and utterly croaked!"""
"As the sighs and lamentations are replaced by silence, the two bodies lie stretched out next to each other in the dark. It will never be like this again, Hans thinks. It will be like this forever, thinks Katharina. Then sleep erases all thoughts and what has happened to them is written on the cortex of their brains as they lie quietly breathing together."
"She also has a suitcase full of letters, carbon copies of letters and memorabilia, most of it flatware, as they say in archive language. She has her diaries and calendars. The next day she climbs up the book ladder and takes the suitcase out of the top shelf, it's dusty, inside and out. A long time ago, the papers in his boxes and those in her suitcase had a dialog with each other. Now they have a dialog with time. In such a suitcase, in such a box, end, beginning and middle lie indifferently together in the dust of the decades, lies what was written to deceive, and what was intended as truth, what was concealed and what was described, lies all this, whether it wants to or not, all of this, whether it wants to or not, is folded tightly into one another, the contradictory, the anger that has become silent and the love that has become silent lie together in one envelope, in one and the same folder, the forgotten is just as yellowed and crumpled as that which is still remembered, darkly or even brightly. As Katharina's hands become dusty as she looks through the old folders, she thinks of how her father used to perform as a magician at her children's birthday parties. He would throw a whole pack of playing cards into the air and then pick out the one that she or one of the other children had memorized from the flying cards."
"The sky darkened near the Operncafé, a thunderstorm broke out at the Kronprinzenpalais and a rain shower blew on the passengers as the bus stopped at Marx-Engels-Platz and opened the doors. A number of people rushed inside to get out of the rain. And so she, who had been standing at the entrance, was pushed to the middle."
"The haunted man awoke from this dream exasperated, shattered and powerless, having succumbed to the demon. He no longer shied away from the observing eyes of the people; whether he exposed himself to their suspicion was of no concern to him. They also fled, left; numerous beach huts stood empty, there were large gaps in the dining room staff, and it was rare to see a stranger in the town. The truth seemed to have leaked out and the panic could no longer be contained, despite the tenacious efforts of the interested parties. But the woman in the pearl jewelry stayed with her own, either because the rumors did not reach her or because she was too proud and fearless to give way to them: Tadzio remained; and to him, in his entrapment, it sometimes seemed as if flight and death could remove all disturbing life in the circle, and he could remain alone with the beautiful one on this island,-yes, when in the morning by the sea his gaze rested heavily, irresponsibly, unwaveringly on the desired one, when, as the day sank, he followed him unworthily through alleys where secretly the nasty dying was going on, the monstrous seemed to him promising and the moral law obsolete."
"The sky was gray, the wind damp; the harbor and islands had been left behind, and quickly all land was lost from the hazy circle of vision. Flakes of coal dust, dampened by moisture, fell onto the washed deck, which refused to dry. After only an hour, a canvas roof was stretched out as it began to rain."
"The sister hurried to her mother and held her forehead. The father seemed to have been brought to more definite thoughts by the sister's words, had sat upright, played with his servant's cap between the plates that were still on the table from the chambermaids' supper, and occasionally looked at the quiet Gregor."
"The doors closed again, the bus started, she looked for a handhold.        And that's when she saw him.        And he saw them.        Outside, a veritable deluge was pouring down, inside it was steaming from the damp clothes of those boarding the train.        Now the bus stopped at Alex. But the bus stop was under the S-Bahn bridge."
"This Hermione, whom I saw for the second time today, knew everything about me; it seemed to me impossible ever to keep a secret from her. It may be that she might not have fully understood my intellectual life; she might not be able to follow me in my relations to music, to Goethe, to Novalis or Baudelaire - but even this was very doubtful, probably this would not trouble her either. And even if she did - what was left of my ""intellectual life""? Wasn't it all in shambles and had lost its meaning? But my other, my most personal problems and concerns, she would understand them all, I had no doubt about that. Soon I would be talking to her about Steppenwolf, about the treatise, about everything and anything that had only ever existed for me alone, that I had never spoken a word about to anyone. I couldn't resist starting right away."
"Once, it had probably been a month since Gregor's transformation, and it was no longer any particular reason for the sister to be astonished at Gregor's appearance, she arrived a little earlier than usual and found Gregor looking out of the window, motionless and looking quite frightened. It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not entered, as his position prevented her from opening the window immediately, but not only did she not enter, she even moved back and closed the door; a stranger might have thought that Gregor had ambushed her and wanted to bite her. Gregor, of course, immediately hid under the canapé, but he had to wait until noon before the nurse returned, and she seemed much more restless than usual. He realized from this that the sight of him was still unbearable to her and must continue to be unbearable to her, and that she must have had to make a great effort not to run away from the sight of even the small part of his body protruding from under the sofa. In order to spare her this sight also, he carried the sheet on his back one day - it took him four hours to do this work - and arranged it in such a way that he was now completely concealed, and that the nurse could not see him even when she bent down. If, in her opinion, this sheet had not been necessary, she could have removed it, for it was clear enough that it could not be part of Gregor's pleasure to shut himself off so completely, but she left the sheet as it was, and Gregor even thought he caught a grateful glance when he once carefully lifted the sheet a little with his head to see how the nurse took the new arrangement."
"He pours her a glass of white wine to go with the trout and sees in passing that she knows how to cut up a fish. She sees his glasses case lying on the table and the pack of cigarettes, Duett brand, and thinks that she never wants to sit at a table again without his glasses case and his cigarettes."
"Tired, stunned by the whirlwind of this strange morning, he settled down in an armchair by the open window after spreading the contents of his handbag around the room. The sea had taken on a pale green hue, the air seemed thinner and clearer, the beach with its huts and boats more colorful, although the sky was still gray. Aschenbach looked out, his hands folded in his lap, content to be here again, shaking his head, dissatisfied with his fickleness, his ignorance of his own wishes. He sat like that for an hour, resting and daydreaming thoughtlessly. At midday he caught sight of Tadzio, dressed in a striped linen suit with red mesh, returning to the hotel from the sea, through the beach barrier and along the boardwalks. Aschenbach recognized him immediately from his height, before he had actually caught sight of him, and wanted to think something like, ""Look, Tadzio, there you are again!"" But at the same moment he felt the casual greeting sink before the truth of his heart and fall silent,-felt the excitement of his blood, the joy, the pain of his soul, and realized that it was for Tadzio's sake that his parting had become so difficult."
"It's nice to walk next to him, she thinks.   It's nice to walk beside her, he thinks.        A twenty-minute walk through the night. He knows the place well, has been there dozens of times, and the waiter gives him the table reserved for regular customers, as usual."
"It was a song that the lonely man did not remember ever having heard; a cheeky hit in an incomprehensible dialect and with a laughing chorus that the gang regularly fell into at the top of their lungs. Both the words and the instrumental accompaniment ceased, and all that remained was a somewhat rhythmically ordered but very naturally treated laughter, which the soloist in particular knew how to shape with great talent into the most deceptive liveliness. With the artistic distance between him and the audience restored, he had regained all his impudence, and his artificial laughter, shamelessly sent up to the terrace, was mocking laughter. Even towards the end of the articulated part of the verse he seemed to be struggling with an irresistible thrill. He sobbed, his voice faltered, he pressed his hand against his mouth, he squared his shoulders, and at the given moment the irrepressible laughter burst, howled and burst forth from him with such truth that it was infectious and communicated itself to the listeners, so that even on the terrace an unobjective hilarity, living only from itself, spread. But this seemed to double the singer's exuberance. He bent his knees, he crossed his thighs, he held his sides, he wanted to pour himself out, he no longer laughed, he shouted; he pointed his finger upwards as if there were nothing more comical than the laughing company up there, and at last everything in the garden and on the veranda laughed, right up to the waiters, elevator boys and house servants in the doorways."
"At five o'clock in the morning, ten o'clock Berlin time, she gets up in time for the start of the ceremony, places a candle on the hotel room table, lights it and plays music for him from the Internet.   The 2nd movement of Mozart's D minor concerto.   The Aria from Bach's Goldberg Variations.   The Chopin Mazurka in A flat.   Each of these pieces of music has interruptions in which commercials are shown.   The new Hyundai. A bank that grants home loans. A medicine for the common cold.   When she returns to Berlin from Pittsburgh six weeks later, she sees the fresh mound of sand and the birch tree next to it. The roses she had a friend lay on his grave have already been cleared away. The friend tells her what the funeral was like. Music was played.   What is it?"" she asks.   Mozart, Bach and Chopin, says the friend.   She nods.   Six months later, her husband is at home when a woman drops off two large boxes.   She was crying, he says, I gave her a handkerchief.   The boxes remain in Katharina's study until the fall."
"His wife told him she was pregnant at Ganymed am Schiffbauerdamm. He celebrated the first print-ready manuscript with his editor at Ganymede. Now he is standing outside the pub waiting for a nineteen-year-old girl.        The nineteen-year-old girl still knew his eyes, his nose, his shoulders yesterday and all day today. But she may not remember what he looks like as a whole. Impatiently, she goes back to her memory."
"When he returned to the hotel, he immediately went to the newspaper table in the hall and looked through the papers. He found nothing in the foreign-language ones. The local ones reported rumors, quoted fluctuating figures, reproduced official denials and doubted their veracity. This explained the withdrawal of the German and Austrian elements. The members of the other nations obviously knew nothing, suspected nothing, were not yet worried. ""One should keep quiet!"" thought Aschenbach excitedly, throwing the journals back on the table. ""One should keep quiet about this!"" But at the same time his heart filled with satisfaction at the adventure into which the outside world was about to fall. For passion, like crime, is not suited to the secure order and welfare of everyday life, and every loosening of the bourgeois fabric, every confusion and affliction of the world must be welcome to it, because it can indefinitely hope to find its advantage in it. Thus Aschenbach felt a dark satisfaction at the events in the dirty little streets of Venice, which were cloaked by the authorities,-this terrible secret of the city, which merged with his own secret, and which he was so anxious to preserve. For the lover feared nothing but that Tadzio might depart, and realized, not without horror, that he would not know how to live if that happened."
"Kairos, the god of the happy moment, is said to have a curl above his forehead, the only way to hold him. But once the god has glided past on his winged feet, he presents you with the bare back of his skull, which is bare and nothing about it can be touched. Was the moment when she met Hans as a nineteen-year-old girl a happy one? One day in early November, she sits down on the floor and begins to look through the contents of the first and then the second box, sheet by sheet, folder by folder. Basically, it's a field of rubble. The oldest notes are from the year 86, the most recent from 92. She finds letters and carbon copies of letters, notes, shopping lists, annual calendars, photos and negatives of photos, postcards, collages, here and there a newspaper article. A piece of sugar from Café Kranzler crumbles in her hands. Pressed sheets of paper fall out between pages, passport photos are stapled to pages with paper clips, a tuft of hair is stuck in a matchbox."
"Quietly cajoling, he regretted the incident, calling it extremely embarrassing for him and the institute, but approved with conviction Aschenbach's decision to await the luggage here. Of course, his room was taken, but another, no worse, was immediately available. ""Pas de chance, monsieur,"" said the Swiss elevator operator with a smile as they glided up. And so the refugee was accommodated again, in a room that was almost identical to the previous one in terms of location and furnishings."
"He has carefully chosen a larger table, there will be three of us, he has told the waiter. And now, she is already in the loop, they keep an eye out for the missing third person. For the starter, he explained to her, you have to have Bernese butter broth because it contains a quail's egg. So they spoon up their Bernese butter broth, each lift the quail egg onto their spoon and marvel at the marvel. A quail's egg, he says, emphasizing the last syllable, and looks at her expectantly to see if she understands the joke. She returns the look. This is the first word in their shared vocabulary. And he has brought her a book of his so that she knows what he is writing. His first present for her. She is to read the dedication later. Then they look over at the door again and shake their heads - where is this unpunctual guy? They are in agreement with each other, they have their first secrets from the world, they know what only they remember when they look at each other. Which is precisely why he has to make the conditions clear before it's too late."
"After a few years of restlessness and a few experimental stays here and there, he chose Munich as his permanent residence at an early stage and lived there in the kind of honorary bourgeois status that is bestowed on the spirit in special individual cases. The marriage, which he entered into at a young age with a girl from a learned family, was separated by death after a short period of happiness. He was left with a daughter, already his wife. He had never had a son."
"Of late he was not content to thank the rule of the day and good fortune for the proximity and sight of the beautiful; he pursued him, he stalked him. On Sundays, for instance, the Poles never appeared on the beach; he guessed that they were attending mass in St. Mark's, he hurried there, and emerging from the glow of the square into the golden twilight of the sanctuary, he found the deprived man bent over a lectern at the service. Then he stood in the background, on the jagged mosaic floor, amidst kneeling, murmuring, cross-beating people, and the squat splendor of the oriental temple weighed heavily on his senses. In front, the heavily adorned priest walked, handled and sang, incense billowed up, fogging the feeble flames of the altar candles, and another seemed to mingle softly with the muffled scent of sacrifice: the smell of the diseased city. But through the haze and gloom, Aschenbach saw the beauty turn her head, look for him and catch sight of him."
"He would often lie there all night long, not sleeping for a moment and just pawing at the leather for hours on end. Or he would go to great lengths to push an armchair to the window, then crawl up the window sill and, leaning into the armchair, lean against the window, apparently only in some memory of the liberating effect that looking out of the window had once had on him. For indeed, from day to day he saw things even a little more and more indistinctly; he no longer saw the hospital opposite, the all too frequent sight of which he used to curse, and if he had not known exactly that he lived in the quiet but completely urban Charlottenstrasse, he might have believed that from his window he was looking into a wasteland in which the gray sky and the gray earth were indistinguishably united. Only twice had the attentive nurse had to see that the armchair was by the window, when each time, after she had tidied the room, she pushed the armchair right up to the window again, even leaving the inner casement open from then on."
"He was already so far gone that he could hardly keep his balance if he swayed too much, and very soon he had to make up his mind for good, for it was a quarter of eight in five minutes - when the doorbell rang. ""It's someone from the store,"" he said to himself and almost froze, while his little legs danced all the more hurriedly. Everything remained silent for a moment. ""They're not opening,"" Gregor said to himself, caught up in some nonsensical hope. But then, of course, as always, the maid walked firmly to the door and opened it. Gregor only had to hear the visitor's first greeting to know who it was - the authorized signatory himself. Why was Gregor the only one condemned to work for a company where the slightest omission was immediately met with the greatest suspicion? Were all the employees rags, weren't there any loyal, devoted people among them, who, if they didn't take advantage of even a few morning hours for the business, would go mad with remorse and be unable to get out of bed? Was it really not enough to have an apprentice ask questions - if such questioning was necessary at all - did the authorized signatory himself have to come and show the whole innocent family that the investigation of this suspicious matter could only be entrusted to the mind of the authorized signatory? And it was more from the excitement into which Gregor was thrown by these reflections than from any real decision that he swung himself out of bed with all his might. There was a loud thud, but it wasn't really a crash. The fall was softened a little by the carpet, and the back was more elastic than Gregor had thought, which was why the muffled sound was not so noticeable. Only he hadn't held his head carefully enough and hit it; he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet in anger and pain."
"She knows that you put your napkin over your knees before you start eating, she knows that you dab your mouth before you drink, she knows that you tilt your soup plate backwards and not towards you, that you don't prop your elbows up and that you don't cut potatoes with a knife. Against all fear, all hope, all the things you cannot and do not want to foresee, it helps to know that the knife and fork should be put down next to each other when you have finished eating, with the handle on the right side of the plate. In the face of this man, who sits opposite her at this dinner as immense happiness, as misfortune and as a question, she understands: now life has begun, for which everything else has only been the preparation.        He thinks it looks beautiful even when chewed."
"Such thoughts, quite useless in his present state, ran through his mind as he stood there, glued to the door, listening. Sometimes he couldn't listen at all because of his general tiredness and let his head bang carelessly against the door, but immediately held on to it again, because even the small noise he had made with it had been heard next door and had silenced everyone. ""What's he up to again,"" said the father after a while, apparently turning towards the door, and only then did the interrupted conversation gradually resume."
"Tadzio, with three or four playmates who had remained with him, moved to the right in front of the hut of his own, and, a blanket over his knees, resting in his deck chair about halfway between the sea and the row of beach huts, Aschenbach watched him once more. The game, which was unattended because the women might have been busy preparing for their journey, seemed random and got out of hand. That burly man, in a belted suit and with black, pomaded hair, who was called ""Jaschu"", irritated and blinded by a throw of sand in the face, forced Tadzio into a wrestling match, which quickly ended with the fall of the weaker beauty. But as if in the farewell hour the servile feeling of the lesser man turned into cruel brutality and sought revenge for a long slavery, the victor did not let go of the inferior man even then, but, kneeling on his back, pressed his face into the sand so persistently that Tadzio, already out of breath from the fight, threatened to suffocate. His attempts to shake off the burden were convulsive, they stopped for a moment and were repeated only as a twitch. Horrified, Aschenbach wanted to jump to his rescue when the violent man finally released his victim. Tadzio, very pale, half straightened up and, leaning on one arm, sat motionless for several minutes, his hair tangled and his eyes darkening. Then he stood up completely and slowly moved away. He was called, at first cheerfully, then anxiously and pleadingly; he did not listen. The black man, who must have been immediately seized with remorse at his transgression, caught up with him and tried to reconcile him. A movement of his shoulder turned him back. Tadzio walked diagonally down to the water. He was barefoot and wearing his striped linen suit with a red bow."
"And now he plays her the Impromptu in A flat major by Franz Schubert, and Bach's Chromatic Fantasy, the Partita in E minor and the third movement of Mozart's B flat major Piano Concerto. Sometimes he nods his head to the rhythm, sometimes he says: That's something, isn't it? Sometimes she says: That's beautiful. Sometimes she asks: Who's playing? Then he says: Artur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil. Between Bach and Mozart, she went for a pee and saw her son's corduroy pants hanging on the line in the bathroom. And in front of the mirror was the bottle of perfume that makes the apartment smell so good, Chanel No 5, and three toothbrushes in a cup. And on a stool, the woman's nightgown, carelessly thrown down in the middle of everyday life. Come, dear May, and make the trees green again, wishes the piano at the very end, but it's already July, outside the summer evening has turned into a summer night, the bottle of red wine is empty. Are you hungry? Yes. Then let's go and have something to eat. Yes."
"And now?        Without either of them having to say a word about it, they head home again. For them, home now also means back to his house.        From below, they look up at the still brightly lit windows."
"And so she did not allow herself to be dissuaded from her decision by her mother, who also seemed unsure in this room because of her restlessness, soon fell silent and helped her sister as much as she could to remove the box. Well, Gregor could do without the box in an emergency, but the desk had to stay. And the women had hardly left the room with the box, to which they were groaning, when Gregor poked his head out from under the canapé to see how he could intervene carefully and as considerately as possible. But unfortunately, it was the mother who returned first, while Grete held the box in the next room and swung it back and forth without, of course, moving it. The mother, however, was not used to the sight of Gregor, it could have made her ill, and so Gregor, frightened, rushed backwards to the other end of the canapé, but could no longer prevent the sheet in front from moving a little. That was enough to alert his mother. She stopped, stood still for a moment and then went back to Grete."
"And even though Gregor had probably lost his mobility forever as a result of his wound, and for the time being needed long, long minutes to cross his room like an old invalid - crawling upwards was out of the question - he received what he considered to be a completely adequate compensation for this aggravation of his condition, that always towards evening the sitting-room door, which he used to watch closely for an hour or two beforehand, was opened, so that, lying in the darkness of his room, invisible from the sitting-room, he could see the whole family at the lighted table and listen to their speeches, as it were with general permission, quite different from what he used to do."
"Our star, he says, must not enter the earth's atmosphere, then it will burn up immediately. So the star is still in the sky, pinned to the firmament with a pin, like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks with relief. She nods. She says yes. He knows he's making it difficult for her to say yes. Immortal sacrifice is the name of the song he comes up with. Whoever is allowed to make the sacrifice is chosen."
"Perhaps he only went out with her so that he could come back. To have the illusion that what is so familiar to him is everyday life for her too. She walks ahead into the living room as a matter of course while he fetches a second bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he enters the room, she is standing at the window. The window sill is so low that it would be no mean feat to tip out, she thinks. There's someone else awake over there, she says. It's a good friend of ours, he says, who paints. She probably hears him say ""from us"". He thinks she should know where she stands. She turns to him. He's holding a record in his hand, the cigarette hanging crookedly between his lips. Take the pipe out of your mouth, you dog. Here's the requiem. It's probably not right now, she says. Now, she said. The dead who lie in the ground don't sleep, they wait. Good music always fits, he says and puts down his cigarette. So then, she says. He pulls the disk out of its case and runs the brush gently over the grooves before putting it down."
"When the cleaning lady comes, Katharina puts them on the sofa, and when the room is clean, back on the floor. When she has to put up the book ladder, she pushes it aside. There is no room for two large boxes on her shelf. The cellar has just been flooded. Should she just take them to the bin as they are? She opens the top box and looks inside. Then she closes it again."
"How beautiful even the bones are on a fish like this, he says, looking at the bone plate, which is reminiscent of an ossuary, but also of the large hall in the Natural History Museum, where the huge dinosaur skeleton is on display.        As a child, I learned to fish from my grandfather, she says.        For a moment, he sees her sitting on a jetty with her legs dangling, holding a fishing rod in the water. What power a sentence like that has, he thinks. Sends an image into your head, whether you like it or not."
"He says we'll only see each other from time to time, but every time should be like the first time - a celebration. She listens attentively and nods. can only be your luxury, he says, because I'm a married man. I know, she says. It may not be enough for you, he says, and that's your right. She looks him straight in the face, there's a yellow ring around her pupils, he sees now. Not only do I have a marriage, I also have a relationship with a woman in radio. And if you had a thousand wives, she says, the important thing is the time we have together. How can he ever refuse her anything if she doesn't ask for anything? The black velvet bow that makes her look like a boarding school student touches him immensely. If he doesn't say what he has to say quickly, it will be too late. And we mustn't publish ourselves to each other - I know and you know that has to be enough for us. That's all right, she says and smiles. Where terms are negotiated, it's about something that lasts. She was afraid all day yesterday and today that he would push her out of his life again."
"Will you come to my funeral?   She looks down at the coffee cup in front of her and says nothing.   Will you come to my funeral, he asks again.   She says you're still very much alive.   But he asks a third time: Will you come to my funeral?   Yes, she says, of course I'll come to your funeral.   A birch tree stands next to the spot I have chosen.   Nice, she says.   Four months later, she is in Pittsburgh when she receives the news that he has died.   It is her birthday, but even before the first congratulations from Europe, Ludwig calls her, his son, and says: ""Father died today.   On her birthday.   When his funeral takes place, she is still in Pittsburgh."
"While he fetches the wine from the kitchen, she takes a few steps into the room and looks around. There are small figures and tin toys in front of the books, postcards leaning against the spines of the books, photos pinned to the boards: a small child, obviously his son, sitting on a pony, an empty landscape with clouds, a beautiful woman on a Hollywood swing, probably his wife, she is smiling at the photographer, who may have been him, Hans, her husband, but through the eternity of the picture she is now smiling at everyone who sees the photo, including her, her husband's visitor. Behind her, he is now clinking his glasses, holding both in one hand and the bottle in the other, ""Shall we listen to some music?"" he asks and walks over to the living room. Yes, she says and follows."
"For the second time, and now once and for all, it had been proven that this city was highly detrimental to him in this weather. Stubborn perseverance seemed unreasonable, the prospect of a change in the wind quite uncertain. A quick decision had to be made. Returning home now was out of the question. Neither summer nor winter quarters were prepared to take him in. But not only here were there sea and beach, and elsewhere they found themselves without the evil ingredient of the lagoon and its feverish haze. He remembered a small seaside resort not far from Trieste that had been praised to him. Why not go there? And without delay, so that the new change of residence would still be worthwhile. He declared himself determined and got up. At the next gondola stop, he took a vehicle and let himself be guided through the murky labyrinth of canals, under graceful marble balconies flanked by lion images, around slippery wall corners, past mournful palace façades that reflected large company signs in the lapping water, to San Marco. He had trouble getting there, because the gondolier, who was in league with lace factories and glassblowers, tried everywhere to drop him off for sightseeing and shopping, and when the bizarre journey through Venice began to work its magic, the pouch-cutting business spirit of the sunk queen did its part to sober the mind again glumly."
"There is no way back at all, not to the wolf, nor to the child. In the beginning of things is not innocence and simplicity; everything created, even the seemingly simplest, is already guilty, is already many-splendored, is thrown into the dirty stream of becoming and can never, never again swim upstream. The path to innocence, to the uncreated, to God does not lead back, but forwards, not to the wolf or child, but ever further into guilt, ever deeper into becoming human. Even suicide will not seriously serve you, poor Steppenwolf, you will have to take the longer, more arduous and more difficult path of becoming human, you will often have to multiply your duality, complicate your complexity even more. Instead of narrowing your world, simplifying your soul, you will have to absorb more and more of the world, you will eventually have to absorb the whole world into your painfully expanded soul in order to perhaps come to an end, to rest. This path was taken by Buddha, by every great man, the one knowingly, the other unconsciously, as far as he succeeded in the venture. Every birth means separation from the universe, means circumscription, separation from God, painful rebirth. Returning to the universe, abolishing the painful individuation, becoming God means: having expanded one's soul in such a way that it is able to embrace the universe again."
"""The figures into which you have seen your so-called personality disintegrate. I can't play without figures."" He held a mirror up to me and again I saw the unity of my person disintegrate into many egos, their number seemed to have grown. But the pieces were now very small, about the size of handy chess pieces, and the player took a few dozen of them with quiet, secure finger grips and placed them on the floor next to the chessboard. He spoke monotonously, like a man repeating a speech or lesson he had often given:"
"""You are a little boy. And just as you were too lazy to learn to dance until it was almost too late, so you were too lazy to learn to love. Ideal and tragic love, O friend, you can certainly do that excellently, I have no doubt, all respect for that! You will now learn to love a little ordinarily and humanly. The beginning has been made, you will soon be allowed to go to a ball. Well, you still have to learn the Boston, we'll start tomorrow. I'll be there at three o'clock. By the way, how did you like the music here?"""
"""It's a pleasure, dear Harry, to be able to entertain you a little today. You have often been very weary of your life, you wanted to get away from here, didn't you? You long to leave this time, this world, this reality and enter into another reality more suited to you, into a world without time. Do that, dear friend, I invite you to do so. You know where this other world lies hidden, that it is the world of your own soul that you are seeking. Only in your own inner being lives that other reality for which you long. I cannot give you anything that does not already exist within you, I cannot open up any other picture room for you than that of your soul. I can give you nothing, only the opportunity, the impulse, the key. I help you to make your own world visible, that's all."""
"""Did you understand a word he said?"" the procurator asked the parents, ""surely he's not making a fool of us?"" ""For God's sake,"" cried the mother in tears, ""he may be seriously ill and we're torturing him. Grete! Grete!"" she then cried. ""Mother?"" called the sister from the other side. They communicated through Gregor's room. ""You must go to the doctor at once. Gregor is ill. Quickly to the doctor. Did you hear Gregor talking now?"" ""That was an animal voice,"" said the procurator, remarkably quiet compared to his mother's screaming. ""Anna! Anna!"" shouted the father through the anteroom into the kitchen, clapping his hands, ""get a locksmith at once!"" And the two girls were already running through the anteroom with rustling skirts - how had the sister got dressed so quickly? - and tore open the front door. You didn't hear the door slam at all; they had probably left it open, as is customary in apartments where a great misfortune has happened."
"""Dear parents,"" said the sister, slapping her hand on the table by way of introduction, ""it can't go on like this. You may not realize it, but I do. I don't want to say my brother's name in front of this monster, so I'll just say: we have to try to get rid of it. We have done everything humanly possible to care for it and tolerate it, and I don't think anyone can blame us in the slightest."""
"""What has happened to me?"" he thought. It wasn't a dream. His room, a real human room, just a little too small, lay quietly between the four familiar walls. Above the table, on which an unpacked collection of cloth samples was spread out - Samsa was a traveler - hung the picture he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and placed in a pretty, gilded frame. It depicted a lady, wearing a fur hat and a fur boa, sitting upright and holding a heavy fur muff, in which her entire forearm had disappeared, towards the viewer."
