"When the maid came early in the morning - in her strength and haste, despite being asked to avoid it many times, she slammed all the doors so hard that from the moment she arrived it was impossible to sleep peacefully in the whole apartment - she found nothing unusual about her usual short visit to Gregor. She thought he was lying there so motionless on purpose and was pretending to be offended; she believed he had all sorts of sense. Because she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, she tried to tickle Gregor with it from the door. When that didn't work either, she got angry and poked Gregor a little, and only when she had pushed him from his place without any resistance did she pay attention. When she soon realized the true state of affairs, she opened her eyes wide, whistled to herself, but didn't stay long; instead, she tore open the bedroom door and called out loudly into the darkness: ""Just look at that, it's dead; it's dead."" there it lies, completely dead!«"
"When the sighing and wailing are replaced by silence, the two bodies lie stretched out next to each other in the darkness. It will never be like this again, thinks Hans. It will be like this forever, thinks Katharina. Then sleep erases all thoughts, and what has happened to them is written on their cerebral cortex as they lie next to each other, breathing calmly."
"She too has a suitcase full of letters, carbon copies of letters and memorabilia, most of it flatware, as they say in the language of the archives. She has her diaries and calendars. The next day she climbs up the book ladder and takes the suitcase out of the top shelf, it is dusty, inside and out. A long time ago the papers, those from his boxes and those from her suitcase, had a dialogue with each other. Now they are having a dialogue with time. In a suitcase like this, in a box like this, the end, the beginning and the middle lie indifferently together in the dust of decades, what was written to deceive and what was intended to be the truth, what was kept secret and what was described, all of this lies, whether it wants to or not, tightly folded together, what contradicts one another, anger that has become silent and love that has become silent lie together in an envelope, in one and the same folder, what has been forgotten is just as yellowed and crumpled as what is still remembered, darkly or brightly. While her hands also get dusty as she looks through the old folders, Katharina must think of how her father always performed as a magician at her children's birthday parties. He had thrown a whole stack of playing cards into the air and then pulled out the one from the cards that were flying around that she or one of the other children had previously remembered."
"The sky darkened at the Opera Café, a thunderstorm broke out near the Kronprinzpalais, and a shower of rain blew over the passengers as the bus stopped at Marx-Engels-Platz and opened the doors. Several people rushed in to get to a dry place. And so she, who was standing at the entrance, was pushed to the middle."
"The afflicted man awoke from this dream, unnerved, shattered and powerless, succumbing to the demon. He no longer feared the watching eyes of people; he did not care whether he exposed himself to their suspicions. And they fled, departed; many beach huts stood empty, the dining room was empty and strangers were rarely seen in the town. The truth seemed to have leaked out, and the panic, despite the stubborn solidarity of those interested, could no longer be contained. But the woman in the pearl jewelry stayed with her family, either because the rumors did not reach her or because she was too proud and fearless to give in to them: Tadzio stayed; and to him, in his embarrassment, it sometimes seemed as if flight and death could remove all disturbing life in the area and he alone with the beautiful on this island - yes, when in the morning by the sea his gaze rested heavily, irresponsibly, unflinchingly on the desired one, when as the day was setting he unworthily followed him through streets in which the disgusting death was secretly going around, then the monstrous seemed to him promising and the moral law invalid."
"The sky was grey, the wind damp; the harbor and islands had been left behind, and the entire land was quickly lost from the hazy horizon. Flakes of coal dust, bloated by the moisture, fell on the washed deck, which refused to dry. After just an hour a sail roof was put up, as it began to rain."
"The sister hurried to the mother and held her forehead. The father seemed to have been brought to more definite thoughts by the sister's words; he had sat upright, played with his servant's cap between the plates that were still on the table from the lodgers' supper, and occasionally looked at the silent Gregor."
"The doors closed again, the bus started moving, she looked for a handrail. And then she saw it. And it saw her. Outside, a veritable deluge was pouring down, inside, steam was rising from the wet clothes of those who had boarded. Now the bus stopped at Alex. But the stop was under the S-Bahn bridge."
"This Hermine, whom I saw for the second time today, knew everything about me; it seemed impossible to me to ever keep a secret from her. It might be that she did not fully understand my intellectual life; she might not be able to follow my relationship to music, to Goethe, to Novalis or Baudelaire - but this too was very doubtful, and probably this would not be a problem for her either. And even if she did - what was left of my ""intellectual life""? Wasn't it all in pieces and had lost its meaning? But she would understand all of my other, my most personal problems and concerns, I had no doubt about that. Soon I would talk to her about Steppenwolf, about the treatise, about everything and everything that had existed only for me up to now, about which I had never spoken a word to anyone. I could not resist starting right away."
"Once, a month had already passed since Gregor's transformation and there was no longer any particular reason for his sister to be astonished by Gregor's appearance, she came a little earlier than usual and found Gregor looking out of the window, motionless and in a position that was almost frightening. It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not come in, since his position prevented her from opening the window immediately, but not only did she not come in, she even recoiled and closed the door; a stranger might have thought that Gregor had been lying in wait for her and wanted to bite her. Gregor immediately hid under the sofa, of course, but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back, and she seemed much more agitated than usual. He realized from this that the sight of him was still unbearable to her and would continue to be unbearable, and that she must have had to force herself not to run away from the sight of even the small part of his body that protruded from under the sofa. In order to spare her this sight too, one day he carried the sheet on his back - it took him four hours to do this - onto the sofa and arranged it in such a way that he was now completely hidden and that his sister could not see him even if she bent down. If she had not thought this sheet necessary, she could have removed it, for it was clear enough that Gregor could not enjoy shutting himself off so completely, but she left the sheet as it was and Gregor even thought he caught a grateful look when he carefully lifted the sheet a little with his head to see how his sister was reacting to the new arrangement."
"He pours her another glass of white wine for the trout and notices that she knows how to cut up a fish. She sees his glasses case lying on the table and the pack of Duett cigarettes and thinks that she never wants to sit at a table again that doesn't have his glasses case and his cigarettes on it."
"Tired, stunned by the turmoil of this strange morning, he sat down in an armchair by the open window after scattering the contents of his handbag around the room. The sea had taken on a pale green hue, the air seemed thinner and cleaner, the beach with its huts and boats more colorful, although the sky was still gray. Aschenbach looked out, his hands folded in his lap, pleased to be back, shaking his head in dissatisfaction with his fickleness, his ignorance of his own desires. He sat like that for about an hour, resting and dreaming thoughtlessly. At midday he saw Tadzio, in a striped linen suit with red bow tie, returning from the sea, through the beach barrier and along the boardwalk to the hotel. Aschenbach recognized him from his height immediately, before he had actually caught sight of him, and wanted to think something like: ""Look, Tadzio, there you are again!"" But at the same moment he felt how the casual greeting sank and fell silent before the truth of his heart—felt the excitement of his blood, the joy, the pain of his soul, and realized that it was for Tadzio's sake that the farewell had been so difficult for him."
"It's nice to walk next to him, she thinks. It's nice to walk next to her, he thinks. Twenty minutes' walk through the night. He knows the place well, has been there countless times, the waiter gives him, as usual, the table that is reserved for regular customers."
"It was a song that the lonely man could not remember ever having heard; a cheeky hit in an incomprehensible dialect and with a laughing chorus that the gang regularly joined in with at the top of their lungs. At this point both the words and the accompaniment of the instruments stopped and nothing remained but a somewhat rhythmically ordered but very naturally handled laughter, which the soloist in particular knew how to make deceptively lively with great talent. With the artistic distance restored between him and the gentlemen, he had regained all his impudence and his artificial laughter, impudently sent up to the terrace, was mocking laughter. Already towards the end of the articulated part of the verse he seemed to be fighting an irresistible thrill. He sobbed, his voice wavered, he pressed his hand to his mouth, he shrugged his shoulders, and at the right moment the uncontrollable laughter burst out of him, howling and bursting with such truth that it was infectious and communicated itself to the listeners, so that even on the terrace an objectless and self-sufficient cheerfulness spread. But this seemed to double the singer's exuberance. He bent his knees, he slapped his thighs, he held his sides, he wanted to spill his tears, he was no longer laughing, he was screaming; he pointed his finger upwards as if there was nothing funnier than the laughing company up there, and finally everyone in the garden and on the veranda was laughing, right down to the waiters, elevator boys and house servants in the doorways."
"At five or ten in the morning Berlin time, she gets up just in time for the ceremony to begin, puts a candle on the hotel room table, lights it and plays music for him from the Internet. The second movement of Mozart's D minor concerto. The aria from Bach's Goldberg Variations. The Chopin Mazurka in A flat. Each of these pieces of music has breaks in which advertisements are shown. The new Hyundai. A bank that gives out home loans. A medicine for colds. When she returns to Berlin from Pittsburgh six weeks later, she sees the fresh sand hill and the birch tree next to it. The roses that a friend had put on his grave have already been cleared away. The friend tells her what the funeral was like. Music was played. What? she asks. Mozart, Bach and Chopin, says the friend. She nods. Six months later, her husband is at home when a woman drops off two large boxes. She was crying, he says, I gave her a tissue. The boxes will remain in Katharina’s study until autumn."
"In the Ganymed on Schiffbauerdamm, his wife told him that she was pregnant. In the Ganymed, he celebrated the first manuscript ready for printing with his editor. Now he is standing outside the bar and waiting for a nineteen-year-old girl. Yesterday and today, the nineteen-year-old girl still remembered his eyes, his nose, his shoulders. But she may no longer remember what he looks like as a whole. She walks impatiently towards her memory."
"When he returned to the hotel, he went straight to the newspaper table in the hall and looked through the papers. He found nothing in the foreign language ones. The ones in his homeland reported rumors, gave fluctuating figures, repeated official denials and cast doubt on their veracity. This explained the departure of the German and Austrian elements. The members of the other nations evidently knew nothing, suspected nothing, and were not yet worried. ""We should keep quiet!"" thought Aschenbach excitedly, throwing the newspapers back on the table. ""We should keep quiet about this!"" But at the same time his heart was filled with satisfaction at the adventure that the outside world was about to get into. For passion, like crime, is not suited to the secure order and prosperity of everyday life, and any loosening of the civil structure, any confusion and affliction of the world must be welcomed by it, because it can vaguely hope to find its advantage in it. So Aschenbach felt a dark satisfaction at the events that were being covered up by the authorities in the dirty alleyways of Venice—this terrible secret of the city that merged with his own secret and that he was so concerned about keeping. For the lover was worried about nothing except that Tadzio might leave, and he realized, not without horror, that he would no longer know how to live if that happened."
"Kairos, the god of happy moments, is said to have a lock of hair on the front of his forehead, and that is the only thing he can be held by. But once the god has glided past on his winged feet, he presents the bald back of his skull to you, bare and nothing about it can be touched. Was the moment a happy one when she met Hans as a nineteen-year-old girl? One day in early November, she sits down on the floor and begins to look through the contents of the first and then the second box, sheet by sheet, folder by folder. Basically, it is a field of rubble. The oldest records are from the year 86, the most recent from 92. She finds letters and carbon copies of letters, notes, shopping lists, annual calendars, photos and negatives of photos, postcards, collages, and the occasional newspaper article. A lump of sugar from Café Kranzler crumbles in her hands. Pressed leaves fall out between pages, passport photos are stapled to pages with paper clips, a tuft of hair is stuck in a matchbox."
"He expressed his regret at the incident in a mildly flattering manner, saying it was extremely embarrassing for him and the Institute, but he wholeheartedly approved of Aschenbach's decision to wait for the luggage here. His room was admittedly taken, but another, no worse, was immediately available. ""Pas de chance, monsieur,"" said the Swiss elevator operator with a smile as they slid up. And so the refugee was billeted again in a room that was almost exactly the same as the previous one in terms of location and furnishings."
"He has deliberately chosen a larger table; there will be three of us, he told the waiter. And now that she is in the know, they keep an eye out for the missing third person. For starters, he explained to her, you absolutely have to have Bernese butter bouillon here, because it contains a quail's egg. So they spoon up their Bernese butter bouillon, each of them lifts the quail's egg onto their spoons and marvels at the miracle. A quail's egg, he says, with emphasis on the last syllable, and looks at her expectantly to see if she gets the joke. She returns his gaze. So there is the first word in their shared vocabulary. And he has brought her a book of his own so that she knows what he is writing. His first present for her. She is to read the dedication later. Then they look back at the door and shake their heads - where is the unpunctual guy? They are in agreement with each other, they have their first secrets from the world, they know what only they remember when they look at each other. That is precisely why he must clarify the terms before it is too late."
"After a few years of unrest and a few experimental stays here and there, he chose Munich as his permanent residence and lived there in the bourgeois status that is bestowed on the mind in special individual cases. The marriage he entered into at a young age with a girl from a learned family ended in death after a short period of happiness. He was left with a daughter, already his wife. He had never had a son."
"Lately he was not content to thank the rule of the day and luck for his proximity and the sight of beauty; he pursued it, he stalked it. On Sundays, for example, the Poles never appeared on the beach; he guessed that they were attending mass in San Marco, he hurried there, and stepping out of the heat of the square into the golden twilight of the sanctuary, he found the bereft man bent over a lectern during the service. Then he stood in the background, on a jagged mosaic floor, in the midst of kneeling, murmuring, and making the sign of the cross people, and the compact splendor of the oriental temple weighed heavily on his senses. In front the heavily adorned priest walked, bustled and sang, incense rose up, clouding the feeble flames of the altar candles, and another seemed to mix gently with the dull, sweet smell of the sacrifice: the smell of the sick city. But through the haze and glitter, Aschenbach saw the handsome man up ahead turn his head, search for him, and see him."
"Often he would lie there all night long, not sleeping for a moment, just scratching at the leather for hours. Or he would not shy away from the great effort of pushing a chair to the window, then crawling up the window sill and leaning against the window, apparently only in some memory of the liberating feeling that looking out of the window had once given him. For in fact, from day to day, he saw even the slightly distant objects more and more indistinctly; he no longer saw the hospital opposite, whose all too frequent sight he had previously cursed, and if he had not known for sure that he lived in the quiet but entirely urban Charlottenstrasse, he might have thought that from his window he was looking out into a wasteland in which the grey sky and the grey earth were indistinguishably united. Only twice had the attentive sister noticed that the chair was near the window, and each time she had tidied the room she had pushed the chair right back to the window, and even left the inner window sash open from now on."
"He had already reached the point where he could hardly keep his balance if he rocked too hard, and very soon he had to make a final decision, because in five minutes it would be a quarter to eight when the doorbell rang. ""That's someone from the business,"" he said to himself and almost froze, while his little legs danced all the more quickly. For a moment everything was quiet. ""They're not opening,"" Gregor said to himself, caught up in some foolish hope. But then, of course, the maid walked firmly to the door and opened it, as always. Gregor only had to hear the visitor's first word of greeting and he knew who it was - the manager himself. Why was Gregor condemned to work for a company where the slightest oversight immediately aroused suspicion? Were all the employees scoundrels, was there not a single loyal, devoted person among them who, if he had not used even a few hours of the morning for business, would go mad with remorse and be virtually unable to get out of bed? Was it really not enough to have an apprentice ask questions - if this questioning was even necessary -, did the chief clerk have to come himself and thereby show the whole innocent family that the investigation of this suspicious matter could only be entrusted to the chief clerk's mind? And more as a result of the excitement that Gregor was put into by these considerations than as a result of a correct decision, he swung himself out of bed with all his might. There was a loud bang, but it was not a real crash. The fall was softened a little by the carpet, and his back was more elastic than Gregor had thought, which is where the not so noticeable dull sound came from. He had only not held his head carefully enough and hit it; he turned it and rubbed it on the carpet in anger and pain."
"She knows that you put your napkin over your knees before you start eating, she knows that you dab your mouth before you drink, she knows that you tip your soup bowl backwards and not towards you, that you don't prop your elbows up and that you don't cut potatoes with a knife. Against all fear, all hope, all the things that you can't and don't want to foresee, it helps to know that when you've finished eating, you should put your knife and fork down next to each other, with the handle on the right side of the plate. In the face of this man, who sits opposite her at this dinner as an immense happiness, as unhappiness and as a question, she understands: now the life for which everything else was only preparation has begun. He thinks she looks beautiful even when she's chewing."
"Such thoughts, quite useless in his present state, went through his head as he sat there listening to the door. Sometimes he was so tired that he could no longer listen and would let his head hit the door carelessly, but he would immediately hold it back again, because even the slight noise he had made had been heard next door and had silenced everyone. ""What is he up to now?"" said his father after a while, obviously turning towards the door, and only then was the interrupted conversation gradually resumed."
"Tadzio, with three or four companions who had remained to him, moved to the right in front of his family's hut, and, resting in his deck chair about halfway between the sea and the row of beach huts, with a blanket over his knees, Aschenbach watched him once more. The game, which was unsupervised, for the women were probably busy with travel preparations, seemed to be disorderly and degenerated. The stocky man in the belt suit and with black, pomaded hair, who was called ""Jaschu"", irritated and blinded by a sand thrown in his face, forced Tadzio into a wrestling match, which quickly ended with the weaker, handsome man falling. But as if in the hour of farewell the subservient feeling of the lesser turned into cruel brutality and sought revenge for a long period of slavery, the victor did not let go of the loser, but, kneeling on his back, pressed his face so persistently into the sand that Tadzio, already out of breath from the fight, threatened to suffocate. His attempts to shake off the burden were convulsive, they stopped completely for a moment and only repeated themselves as a twitch. Horrified, Aschenbach wanted to jump up to the rescue when the violent man finally released his victim. Tadzio, very pale, half sat upright and, leaning on one arm, sat motionless for several minutes, with disheveled hair and darkening eyes. Then he stood up completely and slowly walked away. Someone called to him, at first cheerfully, then anxiously and pleadingly; he did not listen. The black man, who must have been immediately overcome by remorse for his excess, caught up with him and tried to reconcile him. A gesture of the shoulder repelled him. Tadzio walked diagonally down to the water. He was barefoot and wore his striped linen suit with a red bow tie."
"And now he plays her the Impromptu in A-flat major by Franz Schubert, and by Bach the Chromatic Fantasy, the Partita in E minor and the 3rd movement of Mozart's Piano Concerto in B-flat major. Sometimes he nods his head to the rhythm, sometimes he says: That's something, isn't it? Sometimes she says: That's beautiful. Sometimes she asks: Who's playing? Then he says: Artur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil. Between Bach and Mozart she went to pee and saw her son's corduroy trousers hanging on the line in the bathroom. And in front of the mirror was the bottle of the perfume that makes the apartment smell so good, Chanel No 5. And three toothbrushes in a mug. And on a stool was her wife's nightdress, carelessly thrown down in the middle of everyday life. Come, dear May, and make the trees green again, the piano wishes right at the end, but it is already July, outside the summer evening has turned into a summer night, the bottle of red wine is empty. Are you hungry? Yes. Let's go and eat something now. Yes."
"And now? Without either of them saying a word, they head back home. For them, home now means back to his house. From below, they look up at the windows, which are still brightly lit."
"And so she did not let her mother dissuade her from her decision, who also seemed unsure in this room because of her restlessness, soon fell silent and helped her sister as best she could to get the box out. Well, Gregor could still do without the box in an emergency, but the desk had to stay. And the women had hardly left the room with the box, which they were groaning against, when Gregor poked his head out from under the sofa to see how he could intervene carefully and as considerately as possible. But unfortunately it was her mother who returned first, while Grete held the box in her arms in the next room and swung it back and forth on her own, of course without moving it. But her mother was not used to seeing Gregor; it could have made her ill, and so Gregor, frightened, ran backwards to the other end of the sofa, but could no longer prevent the sheet at the front from moving a little. That was enough to attract her mother's attention. She paused, stood still for a moment and then went back to Grete."
"And even though Gregor had probably lost mobility forever due to his wound and needed long, long minutes to cross his room like an old invalid - crawling at heights was out of the question - he found that this worsening of his condition was compensated for in a way that was, in his opinion, completely sufficient by the fact that the living room door, which he had been watching closely for an hour or two beforehand, was always opened towards evening, so that he, lying in the darkness of his room, invisible from the living room, could see the whole family at the lighted table and listen to their conversations, as it were with general permission, and in a completely different way to how he had been before."
"Our star, he says, must not enter the Earth's atmosphere, otherwise it will burn up immediately. So the star is still in the sky, pinned to the firmament with a thumbtack, like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks with relief. She nods. She says yes. He knows he is making it difficult for her so that she has to say yes. Immortal sacrifices is the name of the song that comes to mind. Whoever is allowed to make the sacrifice is chosen."
"Maybe he only went out with her so he could come back. To have the illusion that what is so familiar to him is part of everyday life for her too. She goes ahead into the living room as a matter of course, while he fetches a second bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he comes into the room, she is standing at the window. The windowsill is so low that it would be no great feat to tip it out, she thinks. There is someone else awake over there, she says. That is a good friend of ours, he says, who paints. She must have heard him say ""of us"". He thinks she should know where she stands. She turns to him. He is holding a record in his hand, the cigarette hanging crookedly between his lips. Take the pipe out of your mouth, you dog. This is the requiem. That doesn't seem to be appropriate now, she says. Now, she said. The dead who lie in the ground are not sleeping, they are waiting. Good music always fits, he says and puts down the cigarette. So then, she says. He takes the disc out of its sleeve and gently runs the brush over the grooves before putting it on."
"When the cleaning lady comes, Katharina puts them on the sofa, and when the room is clean, she puts them back on the floor. When she has to put up the bookshelf, she pushes it aside. There is no room on her shelf for two large boxes. The basement was just flooded. Should she just throw them away as they are? She opens the top box and looks inside. Then she closes it again."
"How beautiful even the bones are on a fish like this, he says, looking at the plate of bones, which is reminiscent of an ossuary, but also of the large hall in the Natural History Museum where the huge dinosaur skeleton is on display. As a child, I learned to fish from my grandfather, she says. For a moment he sees her sitting on a jetty with her legs dangling and holding a fishing rod in the water. What power a sentence like that has, he thinks. It sends an image into your head, whether you want it or not."
"We will only see each other now and then, he says, but every time should be like the first time – a celebration. She listens attentively and nods. can only be your luxury, he says, because I am a married man. I know, she says. It may be that that is not enough for you, he says, and that is your right. She looks him straight in the face, there is a yellow ring around her pupils, he can see now. I am not only married, but also have an affair with a woman in the radio. And even if you had a thousand women, she says, the time we spend together is what is important. How can he ever say no to her if she doesn't ask for anything? The black velvet bow that makes her look like a boarding school student moves him infinitely. If he doesn't say what he has to say quickly, it will be too late. And we must not publish ourselves together – I know and you know that has to be enough for us. That's fine, she says and smiles. When conditions are negotiated, it's about something that lasts. Yesterday and all day today, she was afraid that he would throw her out of his life again."
"Will you come to my funeral? She looks down at the coffee cup in front of her and says nothing. Will you come to my funeral, he asks again. She says, you're still very much alive. But he asks a third time: Will you come to my funeral? Yes, she says, of course I will come to your funeral. A birch tree stands next to the spot I chose. Great, she says. Four months later, she is in Pittsburgh when she receives the news that he has died. It is her birthday, but before the first congratulations from Europe, Ludwig, his son, calls her and says: Father died today. On her birthday. When his funeral takes place, she is still in Pittsburgh."
"While he fetches the wine from the kitchen, she takes a few steps into the room and looks around. There are small figures and tin toys in front of the books, postcards are leaning against the spines, photos are pinned to the boards: a small child, obviously the son, sitting on a pony, an empty landscape with clouds, a beautiful woman on a porch swing, probably his wife, she is smiling at the photographer, who may have been him, Hans, her husband, but through the eternity of the picture she is now smiling at everyone who sees the photo, including her, her husband's visitor. Behind her he is now clinking his glasses, he is holding both in one hand, in the other he has the bottle, shall we listen to some music? he asks and goes into the living room. Yes, she says and follows."
"For the second time, and now for good, it was proven that this city was extremely harmful to him in this weather. Stubborn perseverance seemed irrational, the prospect of the wind changing was quite uncertain. A quick decision was needed. Returning home now was out of the question. Neither summer nor winter quarters were prepared to take him in. But there was sea and beach not only here, and elsewhere they found each other without the nasty addition of the lagoon and its feverish fumes. He remembered a small seaside resort not far from Trieste that had been praised to him. Why not go there? And without delay, so that the change of residence would be worthwhile. He declared himself determined and stood up. At the nearest gondola stop he took a vehicle and was led through the murky labyrinth of canals, under delicate marble balconies flanked by lion statues, around slippery corners of walls, past mournful palace facades reflecting large company signs in the water swaying with waste, to San Marco. He had trouble getting there, for the gondolier, who was in league with lace factories and glassblowers, tried everywhere to drop him off to look around and buy things, and when the bizarre journey through Venice began to work its magic, the purse-snatching business spirit of the sunken queen did its part to sober his mind again."
"There is no way back, not to the wolf or to the child. At the beginning of things there is not innocence and simplicity; everything created, even the apparently simplest, is already guilty, is already multifaceted, is thrown into the dirty stream of becoming and can never, ever swim upstream. The path to innocence, to the uncreated, to God does not lead back, but forwards, not to the wolf or child, but ever further into guilt, ever deeper into the incarnation. Even suicide will not serve you seriously, poor Steppenwolf; you will already take the longer, more arduous and more difficult path of becoming a human being; you will have to multiply your duality many times over, complicate your complexity even further. Instead of narrowing your world, simplifying your soul, you will have to take more and more world, finally the whole world into your painfully expanded soul, in order perhaps one day to reach the end, to find peace. Buddha and every great man have walked this path, some knowingly, others unconsciously, as long as they were able to take the risk. Every birth means separation from the universe, means limitation, separation from God, painful rebirth. Returning to the universe, ending painful individuation, becoming God means having expanded your soul to such an extent that it can once again encompass the universe."
"The pieces into which you have seen your so-called personality disintegrate. Without pieces I cannot play. He held up a mirror to me, and once again I saw the unity of my personality disintegrating into many selves, their number seemed to have grown. But the pieces were now very small, about the size of handy chess pieces, and the player took several dozen of them with quiet, sure fingers and placed them on the floor next to the chessboard. He spoke monotonously, like a man repeating a speech or lesson he has often given:"
"You are a little boy. And just as you were too lazy to learn to dance until it was almost too late, so you were too lazy to learn to love. You can certainly love ideally and tragically, my friend, I have no doubt about it, and I have great respect for that! You will now learn to love a little in a normal and human way. The beginning has been made, and you will soon be able to go to a ball. Well, you must first learn the Boston, and we will begin with that tomorrow. I will be there at three o'clock. By the way, how did you like the music here?"
"It is a pleasure for me, dear Harry, to be able to entertain you a little today. You have often been very tired of your life, you have longed to leave here, haven't you? You long to leave this time, this world, this reality and enter another reality that suits you better, a world without time. Do that, dear friend, I invite you to do so. You know where this other world lies hidden, that it is the world of your own soul that you are looking for. Only within your own inner being lives that other reality that you long for. I cannot give you anything that does not already exist within you, I cannot open up any other picture gallery for you than that of your soul. I can give you nothing, only the opportunity, the impetus, the key. I help you to make your own world visible, that is all."
"""Did you understand a single word?"" the manager asked the parents. ""He's not making a fool of us, is he?"" ""For God's sake,"" the mother cried, already crying, ""he may be seriously ill and we're tormenting him. Grete! Grete!"" she then screamed. ""Mother?"" the sister called from the other side. They communicated through Gregor's room. ""You must go to the doctor immediately. Gregor is ill. Get the doctor quickly. Did you hear Gregor talking?"" ""That was an animal's voice,"" said the manager, noticeably quiet compared to the mother's screaming. ""Anna! Anna!"" the father called through the anteroom into the kitchen and clapped his hands, ""get a locksmith immediately!"" And the two girls ran through the anteroom with their skirts swishing - how had the sister got dressed so quickly? - and tore open the apartment door. No one even heard the door slam; They had probably left it open, as is often the case in homes where a great misfortune has occurred."
"""Dear parents,"" said the sister, banging her hand on the table as an introduction, ""we cannot go on like this. If you do not understand that, I do. I do not want to mention my brother's name in front of this monster, and so I will simply say: we must try to get rid of it. We have tried everything humanly possible to care for it and to tolerate it, and I believe that no one can reproach us in the slightest."""
"""What has happened to me?"" he thought. It was no dream. His room, a proper human room, just a little too small, lay quietly between the four familiar walls. Above the table, on which an unpacked collection of cloth samples was spread out - Samsa was a travelling salesman - hung the picture that he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and put in a pretty, gilded frame. It showed a lady wearing a fur hat and fur boa, sitting upright and raising a heavy fur muff, in which her whole forearm had disappeared, towards the viewer."
