"When the maid arrived in the early morning, with all her strength and haste, she, as often as she had been asked to avoid it, closed all the doors in such a way that in the whole apartment from her arrival to no more peaceful sleep was possible, she found nothing special in her usual short visit to Gregor at first. She thought he was lying there deliberately so immobile and playing the offended; she trusted him with all possible understanding. Because she happened to hold the long broom in her hand, she tried to tickle him with Gregor from the door. When there was no success, she became more angry and pushed a little in Gregor, and only when he had moved without any help from his hand, she became attentive to the room with a loud voice. When she could see him soon, she woke up with a big sigh, but it was not the sleep, but the sound of screaming, and she turned to him at the door:"
"When the sigh and the wail are replaced by silence, the two bodies lie stretched out in the darkness, side by side. Never again will it be like today, Hans thinks. This is how it will be forever, Katharina thinks. Then sleep erases all thoughts, and what happened to them is written on their cerebral cortex as they lie quietly breathing side by side."
"She also has a suitcase full of letters, scraps of letters and memorabilia, most of it flatware, as it's called in the language of the archives. Got her diaries and calendars. The next day, she goes up the bookcase ladder and gets the suitcase from the top drawer, it's dusty inside and out. A long time ago, the papers from his boxes and those from her suitcase were in dialogue. Now they're having a dialogue with time. In such a suitcase, in such a cardboard box, end, beginning and middle lie indifferently together in the dust of the decades, what was written to deceive and what was thought to be the truth, the hidden and the described, all this, whether it wants to or not, lies tightly folded together, the contradictory lies, the dumbed-down anger as well as the dumbed-down love lie together in one envelope, in one and the same folder, forgotten is as yellow and crumpled as what one still remembers, dark or bright. Katharina, as her hands get dusty from looking through the old folders, must remember how her father always performed as a magician at her children's birthday parties. He had thrown a whole deck of playing cards in the air and then, from the cards that were being thrown around, he had drawn out the one that she or one of the other children had remembered before."
"At the Opera Café, the sky darkened, at the Crown Prince's Palace, the thunderstorm broke out, a shower of rain blew the passengers, when the bus stopped at Marx-Engels-Platz and opened the doors. Several people rushed in to save themselves. And so she was pushed to the middle, the one who was first at the entrance."
"From this dream the house-boy awoke, nervous, broken, and powerless to fall to the demon. He no longer feared the watching eyes of men; whether he was subject to their suspicion, he did not care. They also fled, they traveled away; numerous beach huts were empty, the occupation of the dining-room showed greater gaps, and in the city one seldom saw a stranger again. The truth seemed to leak through, the panic, despite the tough unity of the interested parties, no longer held back. But the woman in pearl jewelry looked with your eyes, whether it was because the rumors did not press her, or because she was too proud and fearless to reproach them: that one, who remained in captivity, and who, with his mind, could escape and rest for days, when death seemed to him more difficult than the pursuit of the immortal guest, and who, by the unfailing grace of the unknown, returned to the unknown, and so untroubled by the unknown, was able to escape from the shame of the unknown, and to rest with the unforgettable life, as he had done in the unforgettable manner of the unknown."
"The sky was gray, the wind was damp; the harbour and islands were left behind, and all the land quickly disappeared from the misty horizon. Flocks of coal dust, damp with moisture, settled on the washed deck that would not dry. After an hour, a sail was stretched out as it began to rain."
"The father seemed to have been brought to more definite thoughts by the sister's words, had sat up straight, played with his servant's cap between the plates that still stood on the table from the night meal of the lodgers, and sometimes looked at the silent Gregor."
"The doors closed again, the bus pulled up, she was looking for a handle. And that's when she saw him. And he saw her. Outside, a real deluge was coming down, and inside, steam was coming from the wet clothes of the passengers. Now the bus stopped at Alex's. The stop was under the subway bridge."
"This Hermine, whom I saw for the second time today, knew everything about me, it seemed impossible to me to ever have a secret from her. It may be that she did not fully understand my spiritual life; she might not have been able to follow me in my relations to music, to Goethe, to Novalis or Baudelaire, but this too was very doubtful, and probably would not have bothered her. And even if what was left of my ""spiritual life"" was not all in shreds and had lost its meaning, but my other, my most personal problems and concerns, which she would understand, I did not doubt. Soon I would talk to her about the Steppenwolf, about the treaty, about everything and everything that until now exists only for me, about which I had never spoken a word to a human being. I couldn't resist starting right away."
"It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not entered, as he prevented her by his position from immediately opening the window, but she not only did not enter, she even drove back and closed the door; a stranger might have just thought that Gregor had wanted to peek at her and see her out. Gregor of course immediately hid under the couch, but he had to wait until noon before the sister came back and she seemed much more restless. Otherwise he was still looking at Gregor with a glance that was unmoving and so right to be alarmed. It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not entered, as he prevented her by his position from immediately opening the window, but she not only did not step in, she even drove back and closed the door; a stranger might have just thought that Gregor had peeked at her and wanted to see her out. Gregor of course hid under the couch immediately, but he had to wait until noon before the sister came back and she seemed much more restless. Otherwise he was still looking at her, and it was still unsightly to see her, but it was so obvious to her that she could not have been able to hide from the sight of Gregor, even after the sight of this newly and now very small partroubled figure, and even after the sight of her had been so close to her, she could not have been able to conceal herself from the sight of his presence, and even with a glance, and a little, to remain in the very dark manner, but, so close to her mind, and then, to her own, and then, to remain in the sight of the very small, but, and then, to her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her, her"
"He pours her white wine with trout, and he notices that she knows how to carve a fish. She sees his glasses on the table and the cigarette case, and she thinks she'll never sit at a table again that doesn't have his glasses and his cigarettes."
"Tired, numbed by the whirlwind of that strange morning, he spread the contents of his handbag in the room, and then sat down in a chair by the open window. The sea had turned pale green, the air had become thinner and cleaner, the beach with its huts and boats had become more colorful, even though the sky was still gray. Aschenbach looked out, hands folded in his lap, content to be back here, shaking his head, dissatisfied with his ingratitude, his ignorance of his own desires. So he sat quietly for an hour, resting and dreaming thoughtlessly. At noon he saw Tadzio, who in joyful laughter was saying goodbye to his red mask, walking along the beach barriers and the greetings of Bretos. But before he returned to the hotel, Aschenbach felt the truth, and he wanted to think of it, had become as heavy as the blood of his heart, and he had become as heavy as the blood of his own."
"It's nice to walk beside him, she thinks. It's nice to walk beside her, he thinks. Twenty minutes walk through the night. He knows the place well, he's been there a dozen times, the waiter gives him, as usual, the table reserved for the regulars."
"It was a song that the lonely man could not remember having heard; a bold beat in an incomprehensible dialect, with a laughing refrain, into which the band regularly fell with full force. Both the words and the accompaniment of the instruments ceased, and nothing remained but a rhythmically ordered, but very natural laughter, which the soloist with great talent knew how to shape with the most deceptive vivacity. He had rediscovered all his freedom with the restored artistic distance between him and the nobility, and his artistic laughter, unashamedly sent to the terrace there, was laugher. Against the end of the lively strophe of the strophe, he seemed to struggle with an irresistible preacher. He shook his head with his unresisting words, and nothing remained but a rhythmically ordered, but very natural laughter, which the soloist with great talent knew how to shape with the most deceptive vivacity. He had found all his freedom again, and his artistic laughter, unashamedly sent up to the terrace there, was more shameless. He had nothing to hide against the sound of the sound of the voice of the garrising, and the laughter of the cries, and the cries of the cries of the servants, but he himself, who were crying loudly and unwillingly, and unwillingly, and, as if he could not hear, the truth, the sound of the laughter of the cries of the cries of the cries of the cries of the cries of the night, and the night, he himself, and the cried out loudest."
"At five in the morning, ten o'clock Berlin time, she gets up on time for the beginning of the ceremony, puts a candle on the hotel room table, lights it and plays music for him from the Internet. The second. It's a movement from Mozart's D minor concerto. The aria of the Goldberg Variations by Bach. Chopin's masque in A. Each of these pieces of music has a pause in which advertisements are shown. The new Hyundai. A bank that lends money for housing. It's a cold medicine. When she returns to Berlin from Pittsburgh six weeks later, she sees the fresh sand hill and the birch next to it. The roses she had a friend put on his grave have already been removed. The boyfriend tells her how the funeral was. Music was playing. What is it? she asks. Mozart, Bach and Chopin, says the friend. She nods. Six months later, her husband is at home when a woman hands over two large boxes. She was crying, he says, and I gave her a handkerchief. Katharina keeps the boxes in her study until the autumn."
"At Ganymed on the Shipyard Dam, his wife told him she was pregnant. At Ganymede, he and his editor celebrated the first manuscript ready for print. Now he's outside the diner waiting for a 19-year-old girl. The 19-year-old girl knew her eyes, her nose, her shoulders all day yesterday and today. But she may not remember what he looks like in general. She's impatient to meet her memory."
"Returning to the hotel, he went straight to the hall to the newsstand and looked through the newspapers. He found nothing in the foreign-language papers. The domestic reports, with fluctuating figures, gave official denials and doubted their veracity. Thus the withdrawal of the German and Austrian elements was explained. The members of the other nations knew nothing, did not suspect anything, were not alarmed. Shut up! For Asbach thought excited the journalists by throwing it back on the table. But we should keep it quiet! At the same time his heart was filled with a deep conviction about the fact that the abuser wanted to live in the outside world. He could not live without the evil passion of the outdoors, and if he knew the secret of the crime, he would not have to worry about it, because he would not find any more painful and unpleasant than the secret of his own friendship, and would not have to worry about the terrible secret of the world, because he would not have to find any more painful and unpleasant than the secret of his home, and would not have to know that every friend would be able to give up his secret to the secret of the world, even the most terrible danger."
"Kairos, the god of the happy moment, is said to have a lock on his forehead, the only thing that can hold him. But once the god has passed by on his winged feet, he presents you with the bare back of the skull, blank and nothing to grasp with your hands. Was the moment when she met Hans, then a nineteen-year-old girl, a happy one? One day in early November, she sits on the floor and begins to look through the contents of the first box, then the second, leaf by leaf, folder by folder. Basically, it's a field of debris. The oldest records are from '86, the newest '92. She finds letters and brochures of letters, notes, shopping lists, yearbooks, photographs and negatives of photographs, postcards, collages, here and there a newspaper article. A piece of sugar from the Café Kranzler crumbles in her hands. Pressed leaves falling out between pages, passport photos stapled to the sides with paper clips, a lock of hair tucked in a matchbox."
"He was silently flattering, regretting the incident, calling it extremely embarrassing for him and the Institute, but he was convinced that Aschenbach's decision to wait for the luggage here was right. Of course, his room was rented, but another, not worse, was immediately available. ""Pas de chance, monsieur"", said the Swiss elevator operator smiling as one crept up. And so the fugitive was quartered again, in a room that was almost perfectly similar to the previous one in terms of location and furnishings."
"He thoughtfully chose a larger table, and told the waiter that there would be three of us. And now that she's been initiated, they look for the missing third from time to time. For the appetizer, he explained to her, you must take Bernese butter bouillon here, because there is a waiting. So they spoon their Bernese butter soup, everyone raises their eyes to the spoon and marvel at the miracle. A waiting, he says, with emphasis on the last syllable, and looks at her expectantly, to see if she understands the joke. She looks back. So there's the first word in their shared vocabulary. And he brought her a book of his own so she would know what he was writing. His first gift to her. Tell her to read the dedication later. They're in agreement with each other, they have their first secrets from the world, they know what they remember when they look at each other. That's why he needs to clarify the terms before it's too late."
"After several years of unrest, some trial stays here and there, he chose Munich early on as his permanent residence and lived there in a civil state of honor, as he is granted to the spirit in special individual cases. The marriage, which he entered into at a young age with a girl from a learned family, was separated after a short period of happiness by death. A daughter, already a wife, had remained to him. He had never owned a son."
"Recently, he was not content to thank the beauty of the day's rule and the bell for its proximity and sight; he followed it, he followed it. On Sundays, for example, the Poles never appeared on the beach; he learned that they were attending Mass in San Marco, he hurried there, and entering from the heat of the square into the golden twilight of the sanctuary, he found the destitute, bowing over a bull at the service. Then he stood in the background, on a jagged mosaic floor, in the midst of kneeling, murmuring, shaking people, and the ruined splendor of the morning temple there poured heavily on his senses. He walked around, he walked and sang, the priest smelled heavily, but he was tormented by the shadows of the weather, he saw the ash of the altar, and he looked for the shadows of the city, and he saw the ashes of other people, and the smell of the sacrifices mingled with the sparkling of the city."
"Often he lay there all the long nights, sleeping not a moment, and for hours only groping on the leather. Or he did not shrink from the great effort of pushing a chair to the window, then creeping up the window sill and, in the chair, leaning against the window, apparently only in some memory of the liberating that used to be for him in looking out of the window. In fact, because he saw from day to day even the slightly distant things more and more vague; the opposite hospital, whose only all too frequent sight he had cursed earlier, he got to see no more face at all, and if he had not exactly grown up that he stood in the quiet but completely urban Charlotte street, where he could have believed to look out of his window in a more unobtrusive way than the room, which had to be opened to the sky, and even more open to the earth, after each time they had let the gray sister fall down, even after they had left the room, the gray earth had to be cleansed twice."
"He had already reached the point where, with more vigorous swaying, he could hardly maintain his balance, and very soon he had to make a final decision, for it was five minutes and a quarter to eight, when the doorbell rang at the apartment. 'This is someone from the shop,' he said to himself, and almost froze, while his legs danced only more eagerly. For a moment everything remained silent. 'Do not open it,' said Gregor, caught up in some insane hope. But then, of course, the maid stepped to the door and opened it. Gregor only needed to hear the first greeting of the visitor and already knew who the procurator was."
"She knows that you put the napkin over your knee before you eat, she knows that you put a cloth over your mouth before you drink, she knows that you put the soup plate backwards instead of towards you, that you don't put your elbows on the table, and that you don't cut potatoes with a knife. Against all fear, all hope, all that you cannot foresee and do not want to foresee, it helps to know that knife and fork should be placed side by side when you are finished with the meal, with the handle on the right side of the plate. In the face of this man, who sits opposite her at this dinner as a tremendous happiness, as a misfortune and as a question, she understands: now life has begun, for which everything else has been only the preparation. He thinks she looks pretty even when she chews."
"Such thoughts, quite useless in his present condition, went through his head as he stood there glued to the door and listened. Sometimes he could not listen any more from general fatigue and let his head hit the door carelessly, but immediately held it back, because even the small noise he had caused with it had been heard next door and had silenced everyone. ""What he is doing again"", said the father after a while, apparently turned to the door, and only then the interrupted conversation was gradually resumed."
"Tadzio, with three or four plays left to him, moved to the right in front of the hut of his, and, resting a blanket over his knees, about in the middle between the sea and the row of beach huts in his reclining chair, watched Aschenbach again. The game, which was unsupervised, for the women liked to be busy with preparations for travel, seemed irregular and unruly. That stemmed, belted, and with black, pomadised hair, called ""Jascho"", was irritated and blinded by a sand-hair thrown into his face, and for a minute his eyes forced Tadzio to the dark ring, which ended abruptly with the fall of the weaker one. But in the farewell speech of the servant, with his feeling of being relieved, he sat down with his knees bent in a row of sand-huts and a heavy weight of Aschenbach's breath, and tried to take him back to the river, but he was still full of the pain and the long, grim, grim look of the man who had been trying to free him from the long, dark and grim, but still unable, pain and the long, long, dark eyes of the man who had been trying to free him from the long, and to take him."
"And now he's going to play her the Impromptu in A major by Franz Schubert, and Bach's Chromatic Fantasia, the Partita in E minor and the 3rd. It's a movement from Mozart's Piano Concerto in B major. He nods his head in rhythm, and then he says, ""That's something, isn't it?"" And then she says, ""That's beautiful"". She says, ""Who's playing?"" He says, ""Arthur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil"". Between Bach and Mozart, she went to pee and saw her son's pants hanging on the line in the bathroom. And in front of the mirror was the bottle of perfume that the apartment smells so good, Chanel No. 5. And three toothbrushes in a cup. And on a stool the woman's nightgown, thrown away carelessly in the middle of everyday life. Come, dear May, and make the trees green again, the piano wishes at the very end, but it's already July, out there the summer evening has become a summer night, the red wine bottle is empty. Are you hungry? Let's go get something to eat. I'm not sure."
"Now, without either of them having to say a word, they're steering their steps back home. Homeward bound means back to his house. From below, they look up to the still brightly lit windows."
"And so she was not deterred from her decision by the mother, who, even in this room, seemed uncertain from all the agitation, soon became silent and the sister helped with all her might to remove the box Well, the box could still be dispensed with by Gregor in case of emergency, but already the desk had to remain And hardly had the women left the room with the box, at which they were squeezing themselves sobbing, when Gregor stuck his head out from under the sofa to see how he could intervene carefully and as considerately as possible But unfortunately it was the mother who returned first, while Grete in the next room held the box in her arms and swung it back and forth without moving it, of course. The mother, however, was not accustomed to Gregor's sight, he could have made her sick, and so Gregor hurried in a startled backward motion to the other end of the sofa, but could no longer prevent the sheet from moving forward a little That was enough to get the mother's attention. She froze, stood still for a moment, and then went back to Grete."
"And now, though Gregor had probably lost his mobility forever through his wound, and had taken long, long minutes to cross his room like an old invalid, he was not to be thought of crawling in height, but he got a completely sufficient substitute for this aggravation of his condition, in his opinion, by opening the door of the living room, which he had been observing closely for one or two hours before, towards evening, so that he, lying in the darkness of his room, invisible from the living room, could see the whole family at the lit tables and hear their speeches, with a kind of general permission, so unlike before."
"He says our star must not enter the Earth's atmosphere, or it will burn up instantly. So the star is still in the sky, pinned to the firmament with a tear-drop, like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks relieved. She nods. She says yes. He knows he's making it hard for her to say yes. Immortal Sacrifice is the name of the song he comes up with. The one who is allowed to make the sacrifice is chosen."
"Maybe he just went out with her so he could come back. To have the illusion that what he's so familiar with is also everyday for her. Naturally, she goes into the living room while he fetches a second bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he enters the room, she is standing by the window. The window sill is so low that it would be no art to tip over, she thinks. She says there's someone else awake over there. He's a good friend of ours, he says, who paints. She must have heard him say ""we"". He thinks she should know what she's in for. She turns to him. He's holding a record in his hand, the cigarette hanging crooked between his lips. Take the pipe out of your mouth, you dog. Here is the Requiem. She says it's not a good time. Now, she said. The dead who lie in the earth are not asleep but are waiting. ""Good music always works"", he says, and puts the cigarette down. So she says. He pulls the glass out of the case and gently brushes over the grooves before putting them on."
"When the cleaning lady comes, Katharina puts her on the sofa, and when the room is clean, she puts her back on the floor. When she has to put up the bookcases, she pushes them aside. There's no room in her shelf for two big boxes. The basement was just flooded. She opens the top box and looks inside. Then she closes it again."
"How beautiful even the scales of such a fish are, he says, looking at the scales, which resemble a leg house, and at the large hall in the Natural History Museum, where the giant dinosaur skeleton is on display. As a child, she says, I learned to fish from my grandfather. For a moment, he sees her sitting on a dock with her legs dangling, holding a fishing rod in the water. What kind of power has such a phrase, he thinks. Sends a picture into your head whether you want it or not."
"We'll see each other, he says, only occasionally, but it should be like the first time every time a party. She listens attentively and nods. ""can only be your luxury"", he says, ""because I'm a married man"". I know, she says. He says that may not be enough for you, and that's your right. Straight she looks him in the face, round her pupils is a yellow ring, he sees now. I'm not only married, but I'm in a relationship with a woman at the radio station. And if you had a thousand women, she says, the important thing is the time we have together. How can he refuse her if she doesn't ask for anything? The black velvet bow that makes her look like a boarding school girl moves him endlessly. If he doesn't say what he has to say soon, it will be too late. And we can't go public with each other. I know, and you know, that's got to be enough for us. It's all right, she says, smiling. Where terms are negotiated, it's about something that stays. She's been afraid all day yesterday and today that he's gonna kick her out of his life again."
"Will you come to my funeral? She looks down at the coffee cup in front of her and says nothing. If you come to my funeral, he'll ask again. She says you're still alive. And he said to her the third time, Wilt thou come to bury me? And she said, I will come to bury thee. There's a birch tree next to the place I picked. She says it's nice. Four months later, she's in Pittsburgh when she gets the news that he's dead. It's her birthday, but before the first congratulations from Europe, Ludwig, his son, calls her and says, ""Father died today"". On her birthday. When his funeral takes place, she's still in Pittsburgh."
"While he is fetching the wine from the kitchen, she takes a few steps into the room and looks around. In front of the books are small figures and metal toys, postcards are leaning against the backs of the books, photos pinned to the boards: a small child, apparently the son, sitting on a pony, an empty landscape with clouds, a beautiful woman on a Hollywood swing, probably his wife, laughing at the photographer, who may have been him, Hans, so her husband, but through the eternity of the picture she is now laughing at everyone who sees the photo, including her, the visitor of her husband. Behind her, he's now clacking the glasses, he's holding both in one hand, in the other he's holding the bottle, do we want to hear some music? he asks and goes over to the living room. Yes, say it and follow it."
"For the second time, and now for the last time, it had been proved that this city was most harmful to him in this weather. The obstinate perseverance seemed unreasonable, the prospect of a change of wind quite uncertain. A hasty decision was required. Even now, returning home was forbidden. Neither summer nor winter quarters were ready to receive him. But not only here was there sea and beach, and elsewhere they found themselves without the evil ingredient of the lagoon and its feverish mist. He remembered a small lake not far from Trieste, which had been named to him with praise. Why not there? And without delay, so that the but memorable change of residence was still worthwhile. He declared himself for standing and determined to stand on the next spot. He took his vehicle and looked back through the glass labyrinths of the palace, which were in the water, trampling on the large canopies of the canon, and the canonical flags of the royal court, which had been so bizarrely drawn by the Marquis of Venice, and the royal court, that the Marquis of San Marco had succeeded in drawing down to the palace the strange and bizarre images of the royal court, and the royal court."
"There is no way back, not to the wolf, not to the child. In the beginning of things there is no innocence and simplicity; everything created, even the seemingly simplest, is already guilty, is already multi-layered, is thrown into the filthy stream of becoming and can never again, never again swim upstream. The path to innocence, to the uncreated, to God, leads not back but forward, not to the wolf or the child, but further and further into guilt, deeper and deeper into the incarnation. Even with suicide, poor Steppenwolf, you will not be seriously served, you will already go the longer, the more arduous and difficult path of humanity, you will have to multiply your duality many times, complicate your complexity much more. Instead of narrowing your world, simplifying your soul, you will become more and more world, you will eventually have to take the whole world into your painfully expanded soul, in order to perhaps one day come to the end, to rest. This is the path that Buddha has walked, every great man has walked, some knowingly, others unconsciously, as far as he has succeeded in venturing. Each birth means separation from the universe, means confinement, separation from God, painful rebirth. To return to space, to end the painful individuation, to become God, means to have expanded his soul to encompass space again."
"The figure into which you see your so-called personality disintegrated. I can't play without characters. He held a mirror before me, and again I saw in it the unity of my person disintegrating into many selves, their number still seeming to have grown. The pieces were now very small, about as big as handheld chess pieces, and the player took with quiet, secure finger grips a few dozen of them and placed them beside the chessboard on the floor. In a monotone he spoke of it, like a man repeating a speech or lesson often given:"
"You're a little boy. And just as you were too comfortable to learn to dance until it was almost too late, so you were too comfortable to learn to love. Ideal and tragic love, my friend, you can certainly do it excellently, I have no doubt, all respect for it! You will now learn to love also a little ordinary and human. The beginning is made, you can soon be let to go to a ball. Well, you've got to learn Boston first, so we'll start tomorrow. I'll be there at 3:00. By the way, how did you like the music here?"
"It's a pleasure, dear Harry, to have you as our guest today. You have often been very tired of your life, you have longed to get away from here, have you not? You long to leave this time, this world, this reality and enter another, more moderate reality, a world without time. Do that, my friend, I invite you to do that. You know where this other world is hidden, that it is the world of your own soul that you seek. Only inside of you lives that other reality you long for. I can give you nothing that does not already exist in you, I can open no other picture-room than that of your soul. I can give you nothing but the opportunity, the impulse, the key. I'm helping you make your own world visible, that's all."
"""Did you understand a word?"" the procurator asked the parents. ""He's not making fools of us, is he?"" ""For God's sake!"" the mother cried, ""he may be seriously ill and we're torturing him"". ""Grete!"" she cried. ""Mother?"" cried the sister from the other side. They were communicating through Gregor's room. ""You must go to the doctor right away. Gregor is ill. Run to the doctor. Did you hear Gregor talking now?"" ""That was a quiet voice"", said the procurator, strikingly quiet in comparison to the mother's screams. ""Anna! Anna!"" cried the father through the door of the room, and cried out in his hands, ""There's a door! And there's a room empty!"" the two girls ran out of the apartment, and they ran through the door of the room, as quickly as they had been used to, because they had left the door open."
"""Dear parents"", said the sister, striking the table with her hand, ""this is no longer the way to go. If you don't see it, I do. I don't want to say my brother's name in front of this monster, so I'll just say: we must try to get rid of it. We have tried everything humanly possible to nurture and tolerate it, and I don't think anyone can blame us in the slightest. """
"""What has happened to me?"" he thought. It was no dream. His room, a real room, only a little too small for human beings, lay quietly between the four familiar walls. Above the table, on which a disassembled collection of patterned cloths was spread, Samsa was a traveler, the picture he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and placed in a pretty, gilded frame, depicted a lady sitting upright, wearing a fur hat and a fur coat, and lifting a heavy fur coat, in which her entire forearm had disappeared, to the viewer."
