"When the woman came in the early morning – with so much energy and urgency, that despite the fact that she was repeatedly asked to avoid doing so, she slammed all the doors shut so loudly that you couldn’t sleep in the entire flat anymore from the moment she came in – at first, she didn’t find anything strange during her usual brief visit to Gregor. She thought he was lying motionless on the ground, being spiteful, and she trusted him with all possible intelligence. Because she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, she tried to tickle Gregor from the doorway. But when she saw that this didn’t work, she became angry and pushed a bit into Gregor, and it wasn’t until she moved him out of his place without any resistance that she became attentive. When she soon recognized the real facts, she opened wide eyes, whistled softly, but didn’t stay long, pulling the door of the bedroom open and calling out loudly into the darkness: “Why, just take a look; it’s died; there it lies, completely dead!”"
"When still takes the place of sighs and laments, the two bodies lie outstretched in darkness side by side. Never again will it be like today, thinks Hans. This is how it will now be forever, thinks Katharina. Then sleep extinguishes all thought, and what has happened to them is written on their brains while they lie quietly side by side, calmly breathing."
"She, too, has a suitcase with letters, envelopes, and mementos, mostly flatware, as the language of archives would put it. She has her journals and calendars. The next day, she climbs up the bookcase ladder and takes the suitcase from the uppermost shelf; it's dusty, both inside and out. The papers from his cardboard boxes and her suitcase have engaged in a dialogue with one another long ago. Now, they engage in a dialogue with time. In such a suitcase, in such a box, the end, beginning, and middle lie indifferently with one another in the dust of the decades, lying there what was written to deceive as well as what was thought to be the truth, the concealed and the described, everything this or that is forced to lie compactly with each other, lying there the contradictory, lying there the silenced anger and the silenced love together in one envelope, in one folder, the forgotten is just as yellowed and crooked as what still, dark or bright, still is remembered. Katharina must remember, as her hands become dusty while going through the old folders, how her father always appeared as a magician at her children's birthday parties. He had thrown an entire pack of cards into the air and then had pulled out of the flying cards the one that she, or one of the other children, had remembered beforehand."
"At the height of the Opera Cafe, the sky darkened, at the Crown Prince Palace, the thunderstorm broke out, a rainfall blown the passengers in when the bus stopped at the Marx-Engels Square and opened its doors. Numerous people rushed in to seek shelter. And so, the one who initially stood at the entrance was pushed towards the center."
"From this dream the tormented one awoke weary, destroyed, and spiritually weakened to the demon's hold. He no longer shied away from people's gazes; whether he exposed himself to their suspicion did not concern him. Even they, in fact, fled, traveled away; numerous beach huts stood empty, the occupancy of the dining hall showed larger gaps, and one seldom still saw a stranger in the city. The truth seemed to seep through, and the panic, despite the interested party's staunch collective effort, was no longer to be kept at bay. But the woman in pearls stayed with her own, whether the rumors did not reach her, or whether she was too proud and fearless to budge: Tadzio remained; and to that extent, it was as though fleeing and death could all disturbing life around him and allow him alone with the beautiful person on this island to remain—yes, when in the morning by the sea his gaze was heavy, irresponsible, uncharming on the desired one, when he, discreetly, followed him through alleys in which the uncomfortable death circled around him, then it seemed like the monstrous was promising and the moral code fleeting."
"The sky was gray, the wind damp; harbor and islands were behind, and quickly all land faded out of the misty horizon. Coal dust flakes settled on the washed deck, made damp by the moisture, which refused to dry. After an hour, they had to put a sail hood over it because it began to rain."
"The sister rushed to her mother and held her forehead. The father seemed to be brought to a certain train of thought by the sister's words, had straightened up, was playing with his waiter's hat among the plates that still stood on the table from the gentlemen's supper, and looked from time to time at the quiet Gregor."
"The doors closed again, the bus started moving, she looked for a handhold.        And then she saw him.        And he saw her.        It was raining cats and dogs outside, there was steam coming from the damp clothes of those who got on the bus.        Now the bus was at Alex. However, the bus stop was underneath the S-Bahn bridge."
"This Hermine, whom I saw for the second time today, knew everything about me, it seemed impossible to have a secret from her. It may be that she didn't understand my intellectual life completely; she may not have been able to follow my relationships to music, Goethe, Novalis or Baudelaire – but this too was very doubtful, most probably it wouldn't bother her either. And if so – what was left of my ""intellectual life""? Was it not all broken and lost its meaning? But my other, my most personal problems and concerns, she would understand them all; I didn't doubt it. I would soon talk about the Steppenwolf, about the treatise, about everything and anything that until then existed only for me alone, about which I had never spoken a word with a human being. I couldn't resist starting right away."
"Once, it had been almost a month since Gregor's metamorphosis and yet it was no longer any cause for the sister to wonder at Gregor's appearance; she came a little earlier than usual and still found him, motionless and quite frightening to behold, standing staring out of the window. It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not come in at all, for he prevented her at once from opening the window, by his position; but she not only did not come in, but even went back and closed the door; a stranger might well have thought that Gregor had sprung out at her and intended to bite her. Gregor hid himself, of course, immediately under the sofa, but he had to wait until midday before the sister came back again, and she seemed much more restless than usual. Gregor understood from this that she still found his appearance intolerable and must continue to find it so, and that she had to force herself to face the sight even of the little part of his body that stuck out from under the sofa. In order to spare her this sight too, he spent four hours one day on his back sewing a piece of linen cloth onto the sofa, arranging it in such a way that he was now entirely covered up, and that the sister, even if she crouched, could no longer see him. If this linen cloth had not been necessary in her opinion, then she could have removed it, for it could in no way be of Gregor's pleasure to shut himself away so completely, which was clear enough; but she let the linen cloth remain as it was, and Gregor even fancied that he had caught a grateful glance when he once gingerly lifted the linen cloth a little to look and see how the sister received the new arrangement."
"He follows her lead, white wine with the trout, and keeps an eye on her ability to fillet a fish. She sees his spectacle case on the table, along with his DuMaurier cigarettes, and thinks she never wants to sit at a table without his spectacle case, his cigarettes."
"Tired and numb from the turmoil of this strange morning, he, after distributing the contents of his handbag in the room, sat in an armchair by the open window. The sea had taken on a faintly green hue, the air seemed thinner and purer, and the beach with its huts and boats was more colourful, even though the sky was still grey. Aschenbach looked out, hands folded in his lap, content to be back here, shaking his head unhappily over his indecisive, uncertain desires. So he sat for perhaps an hour, resting and dreaming mindlessly. Around noon he saw Tadzio, who, from the sea, had walked back through the beach barrier and the plank road to the hotel wearing striped linen trousers with red stitching. Aschenbach recognized him at once from his height, before he had really looked at him, and wanted to think something like: 'There, there's Tadzio again!'. But at the same moment he felt how the easy greeting went before the truth of his heart and died away, felt the excitement of his blood, the joy, the pain of his soul, and realised that the parting had become so hard because of Tadzio."
"It's nice to walk by his side, she thinks.   It's nice to walk by her side, he thinks.        Twenty minute walk through the night. He knows the place well, he's been there numerous times, and the waiter, as usual, gives him the table reserved for the regulars."
"It was a song that anyone who had been lonely had never heard; a cheeky song in unintelligible slang, and equipped with a laugh refrain, into which the band shouted out loud and full. Both the words and the accompaniment of the instruments disappeared, and nothing remained but a rhythmically ordered, but treated very naturally laugh, which in particular the soloist with great talent managed to make seem very lifelike. With regained creative distance between him and the owners, he had found his full audacity back and his art laugh, sent up to the terrace in a cheeky manner, was mirthful laughter. Already towards the end of the articulated part of the verse he seemed to be struggling with an irresistible tingle. He cried out, his voice fluctuated, he pressed his hand to his mouth, he wrinkled his shoulders, and in a given moment the insatiable laugh erupted from him with such truth that it was infectious and conveyed to the listeners that an objectless and self-living cheer had grabbed onto them as well. This just seemed to double the singer's mirth. He bent his knees, he beat his legs, he held his sides, he wanted to let go, he no longer laughed, he screamed; he pointed upwards with his finger, as if there were nothing more ridiculous, than the laughing company up there, and finally everyone in the garden and on the veranda laughed, until the waiters, liftboys, and housemaids in the doors."
"Early at five, ten o'clock Berlin time, she stands on time for the beginning of the ceremony, puts a candle on the hotel room table, lights it, and plays music for him from the Internet. The second sentence of the D minor concerto by Mozart. The aria of the Goldberg variations by Bach. The Chopin mazurka in A flat. Each of these pieces of music has interruptions where advertisements are shown. The new Hyundai. A bank that grants house loans. A medicine against a cold. Six weeks later, she returns to Berlin from Pittsburgh, and she sees the fresh sandhill and next to it the birch. The roses she had a friend lay on his grave have already been removed. The friend tells her how the funeral was. Music was played. What was that?, she asks. Mozart, Bach, and Chopin, says the friend. She nods. Six months later, her husband is at home, when a woman delivers two large boxes. She has cried, he said, I gave her a handkerchief. Until autumn, the boxes are standing with Katharina in the office."
"In Ganymede on the ship builder's dock his wife told him she was pregnant. At Ganymede he celebrated the first final proof of the manuscript with his editor. Now he stands in front of the local and is waiting for a nineteen-year-old girl.        The nineteen-year-old girl knew his eyes, his nose, his shoulders yesterday and throughout the whole workday today. But how he looks in his entirety, she may not remember any longer. Impatiently she goes up against her memory."
"Returning to the hotel, he went straight to the lobby to check the newspapers. He found nothing of interest in the foreign language ones. The domestic ones contained rumors, uncertain figures, official denials and questioned their credibility. This explained the departure of the German and Austrian elements. The members of the other nationalities obviously did not know anything, suspected nothing, and were not yet disturbed. ""One should keep silent!"" thought Aschenbach, dropping the newspapers onto the table in exasperation. ""One should keep quiet!"" But at the same time his heart filled with satisfaction over the adventure into which the outside world was about to embark. For passion, like crime, does not agree with the secure order and well-being of everyday life, and every relaxation of the civic fabric, every upheaval and visitation of the world must be welcome to her, because she can indefinitely hope to find her advantage in it. So Aschenbach felt a dark satisfaction over the authority-bedecked events in the dirty streets of Venice, this terrible secret of the city, which had mingled with his own secret, and whose preservation was also so important to him. For the enamored one did not worry about anything except that Tadzio could leave, and he did not realize without horror that he would no longer be able to live if that were to happen."
"Kairos, the god of the lucky moment, reportedly has a lock of hair on his forehead that is the only way to hold onto him. But once Kairos has slid by on his winged feet, he presents the bare back of his skull to us; the back is bare and nothing about it can be held onto. Was it a lucky moment when she met Hans that day when she was nineteen? In early November, she sits on the floor and begins to go through the contents of the first and second boxes, one page at a time, one folder at a time. In essence, it is a jumble. The oldest recordings are from 86, the most recent from 92. She finds letters and notes from letters, notes, shopping lists, year calendars, photos and photo negatives, postcards, collages, and, every now and then, an article from a newspaper. A piece of sugar from Café Kranzler crumbles in her hands. Pressed leaves fall out between pages, passport photos are glued to pages with paper clips, a bundle of hair is in a cigarette box."
"Silently, he lamented the incident, called it extremely embarrassing for him and the institute, but wholeheartedly approved Aschenbach's decision to wait for the luggage. His room was taken, however, another one, not inferior, was immediately available. ""No problem, monsieur,"" said the Swiss elevator operator with a smile as they were heading up. And so the refugee was housed once again in a room that was almost completely identical to the previous one in terms of location and equipment."
"With care, he had chosen a larger table, we will be three, he told the head waiter. And now, she is already in the know, keeping watch after the missing third. For the starter, he had explained, one must absolutely have beef bouillon from Bern here, because an egg yolk is in it. So, they all take their Bernese butter broth, each raising the egg yolk to their spoon, and admire the wonder. An egg yolk, he says, with emphasis on the last syllable, and looks at her expectantly, whether she gets the joke. She returns his gaze. Thus, their first word in their common vocabulary. And he has brought a book with him, for her to know what he writes about. His first gift to her. The dedication should be read later. Then looking back to the door again, shaking their heads – where can the unpunctual guy be? They agree with each other, they have their first secrets to themselves, they know what only they remember, when they look at each other. Just because of this, he must clarify the conditions before it's too late."
"After a few years of turmoil, having been away here and there on trial stays, he early decided upon Munich for permanent residence and lived there in the stature of a gentleman, as he permitted to the spirit in special individual cases. The marriage he had entered in still youthful age with a girl from learned family became separated by death after a brief period of happiness. A daughter, already wife, remained to him. He had never possessed a son."
"Recently he was no longer content merely to be near and see the beauty of the day and to thank his lucky stars; he pursued it, he tracked it down. For example, on Sundays the Poles never turned up on the beach; he guessed that they were attending mass in San Marco, he hastened there and as he entered the glow of the place, gilded by the dim light of the sanctuary, he found what he lacked, bent over a lectern, praying. Then he stood in the background on the rugged mosaic pavement amidst a kneeling, murmuring, crucifix-waving populace, and the overwhelming magnificence of the oriental temple weighed heavily on his senses. Forward, the heavily adorned priest walked, handled, sang, and the incense flowed up, it enveloped the powerless flickering flames of the altar candles, and in the muffled scent of the sacrifice another seemed to be blended silently: the smell of the sick city. But through the fog and haze Aschenbach saw how the beauty up there in front of him turned his head, searched for him and found him."
"Many a time he lay through the long nights there, without sleeping a wink and pacing up and down in his leather for hours on end. Or he would spare no effort in pushing a chair to the window, then climbing up the window frame and perched on the chair, leaning out of the window, apparently remembering only of something freeing that once was, in looking out of the window. For, in fact, he saw more and more blurry the things even slightly away from him from day to day; he could no longer see the opposite hospital at all, whose sight he had previously damned frequently, and if he hadn't known he lived in the quiet but thoroughly urban Charlottenstraße, he would have believed he looked out of his window at an empty land where the gray sky and the gray earth indistinguishably joined. Only twice the observant nurse had to see that the chair was standing by the window when she realized that she had arranged the room every time and pushed the chair exactly to the window again, in fact even opened the inner window frame."
"He had gotten so far that at stronger swaying he could hardly keep his balance any more and very soon he must now decide for good because it was five fifteen already – when the doorbell rang. “Someone from the firm”, he thought to himself and almost froze while his little legs danced more and more eagerly. Suddenly everything was still. “They won’t open”, Gregor thought and was paralyzed by some insane hope. But of course, as usual, the maid walked to the door in firm steps and opened it. Gregor only needed to hear the first greeting of the visitor to know already who it was – the chief procurator himself. Why was only Gregor doomed to work at a company where the smallest oversight immediately aroused the greatest suspicion? Were all employees without exception scoundrels, were there none among them who were loyal and devoted people, who, even if they had not exploited a few morning hours for the company, became mad with remorse and were not even able to leave the bed? Was it really not enough to inquire about a boy – if at all necessary –, did the chief procurator himself have to come and thus show the whole innocent family that the examination of this suspicious matter could only be entrusted to the chief procurator’s understanding? And because of the excitement which Gregor's reflections aroused, he swung himself out of bed with all his might. There was a loud hit, but no real noise; the fall was somewhat softened by the carpet, and also the back was more elastic than Gregor had thought, so the not so striking dull sound didn't come as a surprise. Only his head he hadn't held carefully enough and had struck it; he turned and rubbed it against the carpet out of anger and pain."
"She knows that you put the napkin over your knees before you start eating, she knows that you cover your mouth before you drink, she knows that you tilt the dinner plate backward and not toward your body, that you don't use your elbows for support and don't cut potatoes with a knife. It helps against all fears, all hopes, everything you can't and don't want to foresee, that you know that knives and forks should be laid to the side next to each other when you are finished with the meal, with the handle on the right side of the plate. In the face of this man who sits opposite her at this evening meal as a huge blessing, as a curse, and as a question, she understands: now life has begun for which everything else has only been preparation.        He thinks that she looks beautiful even while eating."
"Such useless thoughts were passing through his mind while he stood there holding on tight to the door, and listening. Sometimes he was too utterly tired even to listen, and he would let his head fall carelessly against the door, but at once brought it back again, for even that slight noise he caused made it heard in the next room and stilled all tongues. 'What is he at again?' said the father after a while, as though speaking into the doorway, and then at last the interrupted conversation began again gradually."
"Tadzio moved to the right in front of the hut with the three or four other children who had remained with him. While sitting, wrapped in a blanket, midway between the sea and the row of beach huts, he looked over at Aschenbach one final time. The game, unsupervised, since the women may have been busy with preparations for their trip, seemed random and got out of control. That sturdy fellow, in a belt and with black, pomade-slicked hair, called ""Jaschu,"" irritated and blinded by a sand throw, forced Tadzio to engage in a wrestling match, which quickly resulted in the weaker beauty's defeat. But in the final hour of parting, the servitude of the lesser felt converted into cruel cruelty, and vengeance was sought to be repaid for a long period of slavery. Even when the victor no longer showed the defeated one off, he, still on his back, kneeling, kept pressing the latter's face in the sand, so persistently that Tadzio, already exhausted from the fight, began to suffocate. His attempts to shake off the burden were cramped, then ceased for a while altogether and repeated only as a twitch. Terrified, Aschenbach wanted to jump up to help, but the aggressor finally released his prey. Tadzio, very pale, sat up halfway and sat, leaning on one arm, for several minutes, with disheveled hair and dimmed eyes. Then, he finally stood up and moved away slowly. He was called, first merry and then apprehensive and imploring; he did not hear. The black fellow, who must have immediately felt regret for his outburst, fetched him and tried to make amends. A shake of the shoulder sent him away. Tadzio walked diagonally towards the water. He was barefoot and wearing his striped linen outfit with a red ribbon."
"And now he is playing her the Impromptu in As-Dur by Franz Schubert, and Bach's Chromatic Fantasia, the Partita in E minor and the third movement of Mozart's B-major Piano Concerto. Sometimes he nods his head in rhythm, sometimes he says: That's it, or? Sometimes she says: That's beautiful. Sometimes she asks: Who's playing? Then he says: Artur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil. Between Bach and Mozart she has gone to the bathroom and seen her son's corduroy pants on the line. And in front of the mirror there was the bottle of perfume that made the apartment smell so good, Chanel No 5. And three toothbrushes in a cup. And on a small stool there was his wife's nightgown, carelessly thrown in the middle of everyday life. Come, dear May, and make the trees green again, the piano wishes for all that's left, but it is already July, outside the summer evening has turned into a summer night, the bottle of red wine is empty. Are you hungry? Yes. Then we'll go eat something now. Yes."
"And now?        Without having to say a word between them, they start walking back the way they came. For them now, back to his house also means back home.        From below they look up to the still brightly illuminated windows."
" And so, she did not change her mind about her decision because of her mother, who seemed uncertain in this room as well, soon fell silent and helped her sister with all her might in getting rid of the trunk. Well, Gregor could still do without the trunk in an emergency, but the desk had to stay. And hardly had the women left the room with the trunk, which they were pushing with a grunt, when Gregor stuck his head out from under the sofa to see how he could intervene cautiously and as considerately as possible. But unfortunately, it was the mother, who returned first, while Grete held onto the trunk in the adjoining room and swung it back and forth without moving it from its spot. But the mother was not accustomed to Gregor's sight, it could have made her ill, and so Gregor fled in terror backward until he reached the other end of the sofa, but he could not prevent the curtain at the front from moving a little bit. That was enough to catch the mother's attention. She stopped, stood still for a moment and then went back to Grete."
"And even though Gregor would probably lose all mobility through his wound, and would for the time being take a long, long number of minutes to cross his room like an old invalid – it would not occur to him to crawl upwards – he was given a full enough substitute for this worsening of his state by the fact that the living-room door, which he was already accustomed to monitor closely one to two hours before, was opened each evening, so that he, lying in the darkness of his room, would be invisible from the living room and could watch the whole family at the lit table and hear their conversations, so to speak with general permission, or in other words quite differently than before."
"Our star, he says, may not get into the earth's atmosphere, or else it will immediately go out. The star is thus still in the sky, pinned to the firmament with a paperclip, like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks relieved. She nods. She says yes. He knows he's making it difficult for her to say yes. Immortal victims, goes the song that occurs to him. Who can offer up the sacrifice is chosen."
"Maybe he just went out with her to be able to come back. To have the illusion that for her too everyday would be familiar, which is so familiar to him. She already goes to the living room while he fetches a second bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he comes into the room, she is standing at the window. The windowsill is so low that it would be no art to fall out of it, she thinks. Over there, she says, someone is still awake. That's a good friend of ours, he says, who paints. She hears him say ""our"" Then she turns around to him. He has a record in his hand, his cigarette is crooked between his lips. Take that pipe out of your mouth, you dog. Here is the Requiem. That doesn't fit, she says now. Then, she said. The dead, who lie in the ground, do not sleep but wait. Good music always fits, he says and puts the cigarette out. Then, she says. He pulls the sleeve out of its cover and gently brushes the grooves before putting it on."
"When the cleaner comes, Katharina moves the books to the sofa, and when the room is clean, moves them back onto the floor. When she has to put up the book shelves, she pushes them to the side. There is no space in her bookshelf for two large cardboard boxes. The basement was just flooded. Should she just throw them away as is, into the trash? She opens the top cardboard box and looks inside. Then she closes it up again."
"How nice the fins are even on such a fish, he says with a glance at the grates dish that reminds of a leg ironhouse but also of the large hall in the natural history museum where the gigantic dinosaur skeleton is displayed. As a child I learned to fish from my grandfather, she says. For a moment he sees her sitting on a jetty with her legs dangling and holding a fishing line into the water. What kind of power such a phrase has, he thinks. Sends an image into your head whether you want it or not."
"We will see each other, he says, only from time to time, but every time should be like the first time - a celebration. She listens attentively and nods. It can only be your luxury, he says, for I am a married man. I know, she says. It may be that this is not enough for you, he says, and this is your right. She looks straight at him, around the pupils of which a yellow ring is now visible. I do not only have a marriage, but also a relationship with a woman in the broadcasting. And if you had a thousand women, she says, what is important is the time we have together. How can he ever refuse her anything, if she asks for nothing? The black velvet ribbon, which makes her look like a boarding school girl, touches him deeply. If he does not say what he has to say quickly, it will be too late. And we must not publish each other - I know and you know, that is enough for us. That is okay, she says and smiles. Where conditions are negotiated, there is something that remains. She had been afraid yesterday and today all day that he would push her out of his life again."
"Will you come to my funeral?   She looks down at the coffee mug in front of her and says nothing.   Will you come to my funeral, he asks once more.   She says, you're still alive.   But he asks a third time: Will you come to my funeral?   Yes, she says, of course I will come to your funeral.   A birch tree stands beside the spot I chose.   She says, nice.   Four months later, she is in Pittsburgh, when she receives the news that he has died.   It is her birthday, but before the first congratulations from Europe, Ludwig calls her, his son, and says: Father has died today.   On her birthday.   As his funeral takes place, she is still in Pittsburgh."
"As he now fetches the wine from the kitchen, she walks a few steps into the room and looks around. Small figures and tin toys stand in front of the books, postcards lean against the backs of the books, photos are pinned onto the boards: a small child, apparently the son, sitting on a pony, an empty landscape with clouds, a beautiful woman on a Hollywood swing, probably her husband, who is smiling at the photographer, who might be him, Hans, and thus her husband, but through the eternity of the picture he now smiles at everyone who looks at the photo, also at her, the visitor of her husband. Behind her, he now clinks with the glasses, he holds both in one hand, in the other he has the bottle, do we want to listen to a bit of music?, he asks and goes into the living room. Yes, she says and follows."
"For the second time and now finally it was proved that this city was the most damaging for him in this weather. Stubborn endurance appeared irrational and the prospect of a turn in the wind was quite uncertain. A swift decision was in order. It was already forbidden to return home now. Neither summer nor winter quarters were ready to take him in. But not only did there exist sea and beach, and else where they would find themselves without the troublesome addition of the lagoon and its fever mist. He remembered a small sea-bath not far from Trieste, which they called him for praiseworthy. Why not go there? And do it without delay, so that the alternate stay could still be worth the effort. He declared himself determined and got up. He got into the next gondola stop and had himself taken to San Marco, through the cloudy labyrinth of canals, under the finicky marble balconies flanked by lion pictures and around the sticky corners, past the grieving palace facades that reflected the large company names in the waste-throwing water. It was difficult for him to reach his destination because the gondolier, who was involved in brink fabric and glassblowing, tried to take him on excursion and shopping over there, and if the bizarre drive through Venice began to show its magic, then the miserly business spirit of the fallen queen did its share to upset the mood again."
"""There is no way back to the wolf or to the child. The primal origin of things is not innocence and simplicity. Everything that is created, even the seemingly simple things, is already guilty, already multifarious, has been thrown into the dirty stream of becoming and can never go upstream again. The way to innocence, to the uncreated, to God does not lead back, but forward. It does not lead to the wolf or child, but ever further into guilt, ever deeper into humanization. With suicide, dear Steppenwolf, you will not be served seriously either. You will still have to take the longer, more laborious, and more difficult path of humanization, you will have to multiply your duality, and complicate your complexity even further. Instead of narrowing your world and simplifying your soul, you will have to take more and more of the whole world into your painfully expanded soul, until perhaps you can come to an end, to rest. This is the path taken by Buddha and every great person who went, knowingly, unknowingly, to the extent that they were up for the risk. Every birth means separation from the All, means demarcation, separation from God, painful re-birth. Returning to the All, lifting the painful individuation, becoming God means: having expanded his soul in such a way that it can encompass the All again."
"""You see the figures that you call your ""personality"" disintegrate. Without figures, you can't play."" He presented me with a mirror, and once again I saw within it the fragmentation of my unity into many selves, their number still increasing. But the figures were now very small, approximately the size of handy chess pieces, and the player picked up a few dozen of them with quiet, secure finger movements and placed them next to the chessboard on the floor. Monotonously he spoke to them, like a man repeating a speech or lesson he has given many times:"
"""You are a small boy. And just as you were too comfortable to learn how to dance when it was almost too late, you were also too comfortable to learn how to love. You are an ideal and tragic lover, my friend, that is something you are very good at, I have no doubt about that! You will learn to love a little more normally and humanly. We can already start by teaching you how to dance the Boston - we will start tomorrow morning. I will come at three. How did you like the music here by the way?"""
"»It is my pleasure, dear Harry, to be able to offer you a drink today. You have often been overly tired in your life, you have longed to move away from here, haven’t you? You yearn for this time, this world, this reality to leave you and enter into another, more fitting reality, in a world without time. Do it, dear friend, I invite you to. You know where this other world lies hidden, that it is the world of your own soul that you seek. Only in your own inner sanctum does that other reality live, which you yearn for. I cannot give you anything that does not already exist within yourself, I cannot open to you any other picture gallery than that of your soul. I cannot give you anything other than the opportunity, the impetus, the key. I help you make your own world visible, that’s all."
"""Did you even understand a single word?"" the procurator asked the parents. ""Is he perhaps fooling around with us?"" ""Good heavens,"" the mother shouted already in tears, ""he's probably seriously ill, and we're torturing him. Grete! Grete!,"" she shouted then. ""Mother?"" the sister shouted from the other side. They communicated through Gregor's room. ""You absolutely must call the doctor immediately. Gregor is ill. Quickly, call a doctor. Have you heard Gregor talking now?"" ""That was an animal voice,"" said the procurator, remarkably quietly against the screaming of the mother. ""Anna! Anna!"" the father shouted through the antechamber to the kitchen and clapped his hands, ""get a locksmith right away!"" And already the two girls were rushing through the antechamber with flapping skirts - how had the sister dressed so quickly? - and tore open the apartment door. You didn't even hear the door slamming; they had probably left it open, as is often the case in dwellings where a great misfortune has occurred."
"""Dear parents,"" the sister said, and began by slapping the table, ""it can't go on like this. If you can't see this, I can. I don't want to utter my brother's name before this beast, and so I will just say that we must try to get rid of it. We have done everything humanly possible to nurse and tolerate it, and I believe that no one can blame us in the least."""
"What had happened to him? he thought. It was not a dream. His room, a proper one, only a little too small, lay peacefully between four well-known walls. Above the table, where a spread of printed linen samples lay out — for Samsa was a travelling salesman — hung the picture that he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and had put in a pretty gilt frame. It showed a woman who sat upright, providing herself with a hat made of fur and a boa of fur; in one hand she had a fur muff, in which she had completely buried her arm, while with the other she beckoned to him."
