"When the waitress arrived early in the morning—with full force and rush she, as many times as she had been asked, struck to avoid closing all doors in such a way that a quiet sleep was no longer possible in the whole apartment since her arrival—she found nothing special at first in her usual short visit to Gregor. She thought he was deliberately lying there so immobile and playing the offended; she trusted him with all his intelligence. Because she accidentally held the long bear in her hand, she tried to knock Gregor out of the door with him. When there was no success, she became angry and stumbled a little into Gregor, and it was only when she had pushed him out of his place without any resistance that she became aware. When she soon realized the true situation, she made big eyes, whispered in front of herself, but did not stop for long, but opened the door of the bedroom and cried out in the darkness with a loud voice: ""Look, it is crumbled; there it lies, crumbled entirely!"""
"When silence comes to the place of whispering and mourning, the two bodies lie stretched side by side in the dark. It will never be as it is today again, he said. This will be the case forever, Kathy thinks. Then the sleep wipes out all thoughts, and what happened to them, while they lie quietly breathing together, is written on the cortex of their brains."
"She also has a suitcase with letters, passes of letters and souvenirs, flatware most of it, as it is called in the language of the archives. They have their diaries and calendars. The next day she climbs to the bookstore and takes the suitcase out of the top compartment, which is dusty, inside and outside. Long ago, the papers from his cartons and those from their suitcases had a dialogue with each other. You have a dialogue with time. In such a suitcase, in such a carton, end, beginning and middle lie indifferent to each other in the dust of decades, what was written to deceive lies, and what was thought to be truth, the secret and the described, all that, whether it will or not, lies tightly intertwined, lies the contradictory, lies the silenced anger as well as the silenced love with each other in one envelope, in one and the same folder, the forgotten is as yellowed and crushed as what one still remembers, dark or bright. Katharina has to remember how her father always acted as a wizard on her child’s birthday, as her hands become dusty as she looks through the old folders. He had thrown a whole bunch of playing cards into the air and then pulled out of the flying cards the one she or one of the other children had noticed before."
"At the height of the Opera Cafe, the sky darkened, the thunderstorm broke out at the Crown Prince Palace, a rainbow blowed the passengers as the bus stopped at Marx-Engels Square and opened the doors. Many people pressed in to save themselves in the dry. And so she, who was at the entrance, was pushed to the middle."
"From this dream the home-seeking man woke up nervous, crushed, and powerlessly fallen to the devil. He no longer feared the observing eyes of the people; whether he exposed himself to their suspicion, he did not care. They also fled, they went away; numerous beach chalets were empty, the occupation of the dining room showed greater gaps, and in the city one rarely saw a stranger. The truth seemed to have leaked, the panic, despite the tight cohesion of the interested parties, no longer holds back. But the woman in the pearl jewelry remained with her own, either because the rumors did not come to her, or because she was too proud and fearless to evade them: Tadzio remained; and to him, in his possession, it was sometimes as if escape and death could remove all the disturbing life in the circle and he remained alone with the Beautiful on this island—yes, when in the morning at the sea his look rested heavy, irresponsible, unrelated to the desired, when he in the sinking day by the streets, in which mysteriously the ugly died, followed him unworthy, so the monstrous seemed to him in sight and fall the law."
"The sky was grey, the wind was damp; ports and islands were left behind, and all the land was quickly lost from the dull circle of the face. Flocks of coal dust went down, softened by moisture, on the washed deck, which did not want to dry. After about an hour, a sailing roof was stretched out as it began to rain."
"The sister rushed to her mother and held her forehead. The father seemed to have been brought to certain thoughts by the sister’s words, had stood up, played with his servant’s mite between the plates that had been on the table since the hosts’ dinner, and sometimes looked at the silent Gregory."
"The doors closed again, the bus started, she was looking for a grip. And there she saw him. And he saw her. Outside a real flood descended, inside it steamed from the damp clothes of the ascendants. The bus stopped at Alex. The stop was under the S-Bahn bridge."
"This Hermione, whom I saw for the second time today, knew everything about me; it seemed to me impossible to have a secret before her. It may have been that she might not have fully understood my spiritual life; in my relations with music, with Goethe, with Novalis or Baudelaire, she might not have been able to follow me – but this too was very questionable, probably this too would not make her an effort. And yet, what was left of my ""spiritual life""? did not all of this fall into trouble and have lost its meaning? but my other, my most personal problems and concerns, which they would all understand, I did not doubt. Soon I would talk to her about the steppe wolf, about the treaty, about everything and everything that has existed so far only for me, about which I had never spoken a word with a human being. I couldn’t resist starting right away."
"Once, a month had passed since Gregor's transformation, and though there was no special reason for the sister to be surprised at Gregor's appearance, she came a little earlier than usual and met Gregor as he, standing still and so just as to scare, looked out the window. It would not have been unexpected for Gregor if she had not entered, for he hindered her by his position from opening the window immediately, but not only did she not enter, she even drove back and closed the door; a stranger could have just thought Gregor had locked her up and wanted to bite her. Gregor, of course, hid himself immediately under the couch, but he had to wait until noon before the sister came back, and she seemed much more restless than usual. He realized from this that his sight was still intolerable to her and must continue to remain intolerable to her, and that she must surely overcome herself, not to run away from the sight of even the small part of his body with which he stood out under the couch. To spare her this sight, one day he wore the canvas on his back—it took him four hours to do this work—and arranged it in such a way that it was now completely hidden, and that the sister, even when she bowed down, could not see him. Had it not been necessary in her opinion, she could have removed it, for it was clear enough that it could not be Gregor’s pleasure to lock himself up so completely, but she left the linen as it was, and Gregor even thought he had taken a grateful look when he once carefully lifted the linen with his head a little to see how the sister took up the new decor."
"He gives her white wine to the forel, and by the way sees that she knows how to smash a fish. She sees his glassetui lying on the table and the cigarette box, Marke Duett, and thinks she never wants to sit at a table again without his glassetui, his cigarettes."
"Tired, anesthetized by the whirlwind of this strange morning, after distributing the contents of his handbag in the room, he sat down in a chair at the open window. The sea had taken a blue-green color, the air seemed thinner and cleaner, the beach with its huts and boats more coloured, though the sky was still gray. Aschenbach looked out, with his hands folded, pleased to be here again, choking his head unhappy with his turmoil, his ignorance of his own desires. So he sat for an hour, resting and dreaming thoughtlessly. At noon, he saw Tadzio returning to the hotel in a striped linen suit with a red mask, from the sea, through the beach barricade and along the boat paths. Aschenbach immediately recognized him from his height, before he actually caught him in the eye, and wanted to think something like, “See, Tadzio, there are you again!” but at the same moment he felt the casual greeting of the truth of his heart sinking down and silenced—he felt the enthusiasm of his blood, the joy, the pain of his soul, and realized that it had become so difficult for him to say goodbye for Tadzio’s sake."
"It’s nice to walk next to him, she thinks. It’s nice to be next to her, he thinks. Twenty minutes walk through the night. He knows the venue well, has been there dozens of times, the waitress gives him, as usual, the table reserved for the regular customers."
"It was a song that the Lonely One never remembered to have heard; a dull drummer in an incomprehensible dialect and equipped with a salmon refrain into which the band regularly fell from full throat. Here both the words and the accompaniment of the instruments ceased, and nothing remained but a rhythmically somehow ordered, but very naturally treated laughter, which the solist with great talent knew how to shape to the most deceptive vivacity. He had recovered all his freedom when the artistic distance between him and the rulers had been restored, and his artistic laughter, unshamefully sent up to the terrace, was laughing. Already at the end of the articulated part of the strap, he seemed to be fighting with an irresistible kitzel. He swallowed, his voice fluctuated, he pressed his hand against his mouth, he pushed his shoulders, and at the given moment he broke, cried, and placed the unstoppable laughter out of him, with such truth that it seemed contagious and communicated to the listeners that even on the terrace an objectless and only self-living cheerfulness was gripping around. However, this seemed to double the singer’s desire. He bowed his knees, he beat his thighs, he held his sides, he wanted to scatter himself, he did not laugh anymore, he cried; he pointed up his finger as if there was nothing more funny than the laughing company up there, and finally he laughed all in the garden and on the veranda, up to the waiters, lift boys and housekeepers in the doors."
"Early at five or ten o’clock local Berlin time, she stands up on time at the beginning of the ceremony, puts a candle on the hotel room table, lights it on and plays music for him from the Internet. The 2. The D-Moll Concert by Mozart. The Aria of Bach’s Goldberg Variations. The Chopin Mazurka in As. Each of these music pieces has interruptions in which advertising is shown. The new Hyundai. A bank that provides home loans. A medication against snoring. When she returns to Berlin six weeks later from Pittsburgh, she sees the fresh sand hill and the birch next to it. The roses she put on his grave by a friend have already been cleaned away. My friend told me how the funeral was. Music was played. What is it? she asks. Mozart, Bach and Chopin, says the friend. She is nicking. Half a year later, her husband is home when a woman delivers two large boxes. She cried, he said, I gave her a pocket towel. Until the autumn, the cartons are in Katharina’s office."
"In Ganymed on the shipyard, his wife told him that she was pregnant. In Ganymede, he celebrated with his lecturer the first print-ready manuscript. Now he is standing in front of the room waiting for a nineteen-year-old girl. The nineteen-year-old still knew his eyes, his nose, his shoulders yesterday and today all day. But what he looks like, he probably doesn’t know anymore. She is impatient with her memories."
"Upon returning to the hotel, he immediately went into the hall to the newspaper table and looked around in the papers. He found nothing in the foreign language. The local recorded rumors led to fluctuating figures, repeated official denials and questioned their truthfulness. This led to the withdrawal of the German and Austrian elements. The members of the other nations apparently knew nothing, did not know anything, were not worried yet. “Stay silent!” thought Aschenbach excitedly, throwing the journals back on the table. But at the same time his heart was filled with satisfaction over the adventure into which the outside world wanted to fall. For, like crime, the secure order and well-being of everyday life are not in accordance with passion, and every loosening of the bourgeois fabric, every confusion and insight into the world must be welcomed by it, because it can hopefully find its advantage in it. Aschenbach thus felt a dark satisfaction with the circumstances of the dirty gathering of Venice—this evil mystery of the city which merged with its own mystery, and which it was so important for him to preserve. For the lover worried nothing but that Tadzio might leave, and did not realize without horror that he would no longer know how to live if that happened."
"Kairos, the god of the happy moment, is said to have a curl over the forehead, only on which one can hold him. But once the God has looked forward on his winged feet, he presents one the bald back of the skull, which is blank and nothing to touch with hands. Was the moment a happier when she met Hans at the time, as a nineteen-year-old girl? One day in early November, she sits on the floor and begins to look through sheet for sheet, folder for folder, the contents of the first, then the second box. Basically, it is a rubble field. The oldest records are from the year 86, the youngest from 92. She finds letters and passes of letters, notes, shopping lists, annual calendars, photos and negatives of photos, postcards, collages, here and there a newspaper article. A piece of sugar from the café Kranzler crushes in her hands. Pressed leaves fall out between the sides, passport photos are attached to the sides with office clamps, in a straw wooden box is a bucket of hair."
"He quietly lamented the incident, called it extremely embarrassing to him and to the Institute, but with conviction approved Aschenbach’s decision to wait for the baggage here. Of course, his room was forgiven, but another, no worse, was immediately available. “Pas de chance, monsieur,” said the Swiss elevator driver smiling as he slipped up. And so the refugee was placed again in a room that was almost entirely similar to the previous one in terms of location and arrangement."
"With wisdom he chose a larger table, we will be third, he told the superior. And now that it is already consecrated, you look again and again for the missing third. For breakfast, he explained to her, you must definitely take Bernese butterbouillon here, because there is a wachtelei in it. So they roll out their Bernese butterbouillon, each raise the wachtel on the spoon and admire the miracle. A vigil, he says, with emphasis on the last syllable, and looks at her with expectation to see if she understands the joke well. She returns the look. So there is the first word in their common vocabulary. And He brought her a book from Himself, so that she might know what He writes. His first gift to her. The dedication should be read later. Then look over the door again and shake their heads – where the pointless guy only stays? they are in agreement with each other, they have their first secrets in front of the world, they know what only they remember when they look at each other. That is why he needs to clarify the conditions before it is too late."
"After several years of unrest, some trial stays there and there, he early chose Munich as his permanent residence and lived there in civil honor, as he is attributed to the spirit in special individual cases. The marriage he entered into as a teenager with a girl from an educated family was separated by death after a short period of happiness. A daughter, already a wife, was left to him. He had never been obsessed with a son."
"Recently he did not content himself with thanking for the proximity and sight of the Beautiful of the Rule of the Day and for the happiness; he pursued him, he submitted to him. On Sundays, for example, the Poles never appeared on the beach; he recalled that they were attending the Mass in San Marco, he rushed there, and entering the golden dawn of the sanctuary from the fire of the square, he found the missing man bowed over a bedboard at the worship. Then he stood in the background, on a crushed mosaic floor, in the midst of kneeling, murmuring, crucifying people, and the overwhelming splendor of the morning temple loaded his senses abundantly. The heavily adorned priest walked forward, chanting and singing, the smoke of the consecration swallowed, he obscured the powerless flames of the altar candles, and in the dumb sweet sacrifice smell seemed to silently mix another: the smell of the sick city. But through thunder and sparkle, Aschenbach saw the beautiful man turning his head in front of him, looking for him and seeing him."
"Often he lay there all the long nights, did not sleep for a moment, and only hanged on the leather for hours. Or he did not fear the great effort of pushing a chair to the window, then crawling up the window armor and, standing in the chair, leaning to the window, apparently only in some remembrance of the liberating thing that had previously been for him to look out of the window. For indeed, from day to day he saw the things, even a little more distant, more and more unclear; the opposite hospital, whose too frequent sight he had previously cursed, he could not see at all, and if he had not known exactly that he lived in the quiet but entirely urban Charlottenstraße, he could have believed to have looked out of his window into a desert in which the gray sky and the gray earth were inseparably united. Only twice had the attentive sister seen that the chair stood by the window, when, every time she had cleaned up the room, she pushed the chair right back to the window, and even left the inner wing open from now on."
"He was already so far away that he could hardly get the balance with a stronger twist, and very soon he had to make a final decision, for it was five-quarters-eight in five minutes when it sounded at the door of his apartment. “That’s someone out of the store,” he said, almost hardened, while his legs were just dancing faster. For a moment everything remained silent. “They don’t open,” said Gregor, stuck in some foolish hope. But then, as usual, the maid went steadily to the door and opened. Gregor only needed to hear the first greeting of the visitor, and he knew who it was—the procurator himself. Why was only Gregor condemned to serve at a company where, in the slightest omission, the greatest suspicion was attained? If all the employees were together and so much lame, there was not among them a faithful devout person, who, even if he had not used a few hours in the morning for the business, became nauseous of conscience and could not even leave the bed? Was it really not enough to have a teacher questioned – if this questioning was at all necessary – then the prosecutor himself had to come, and thus had to be shown to the whole innocent family that the investigation of this suspicious matter could only be entrusted to the mind of the prosecutor? There was a loud blow, but it was not a real crack. The case was slightly weakened by the carpet, the back was also more elastic than Gregor had thought, so the not so striking dumb sound came. Only the head he had not held carefully enough and struck it; he turned it and rubbed it on the carpet from anger and pain."
"She knows that you put the towel over your knees before you start eating, she knows that you put your mouth off before you drink, she knows that you put the suppenteller back and not to yourself, that you don’t support your elbows and don’t cut potatoes with a knife. Against all fear, all hope, all that one cannot foresee and does not want to foresee, on the other hand, it helps to know that knives and gauges should be laid side by side when one is finished with the food, with the handle on the right side of the plate. In the face of this man who faces her at this dinner as tremendous happiness, misfortune, and question, she understands: Now life has begun, for which everything else has been only the preparation. He thinks she still looks beautiful while chewing."
"Such useless thoughts, in his present state, went through his head as he stood standing at the door and listened. Sometimes he could not listen at all because of general fatigue and let his head beaten reluctantly at the door, but immediately held him back, because even the little noise he had caused had been heard by the side and had silenced everyone. “What he is doing again,” said the father after a while, apparently turning to the door, and only then was the interrupted conversation gradually restarted."
"Tadzio, with three or four games left to him, moved to the right in front of the cabin of his own, and, resting a ceiling over his knees, about in the middle between the sea and the row of beach cabins in his laying chair, Aschenbach looked at him again. The game, which was unsupervised because the women liked to be busy with travel preparations, seemed irregular and kindled. That stumbling man, dressed in a belt suit and with black, pomadized hair, who was called ""Jaschu"", irritated and blinded by a sandshift in the face, forced Tadzio to the ring fight, which quickly ended with the fall of the weaker Beautiful. But as if in the hour of farewell the serving feeling of the inferior turned into cruel rudeness and sought revenge for a long slavery, the victor still did not give up on the inferior, but pressed, kneeling on his back, whose face so persistently into the sand that Tadzio threatened to suffocate, without fighting out of breath. His attempts to shake the burden were convulsive, they stopped for moments and only repeated themselves as a shake. Horrified, Aschenbach wanted to jump to rescue when the violent man finally released his victim. Tadzio, very pale, stood half up and sat, backed on one arm, immobile for several minutes, with confused hair and darkened eyes. Then he stood up and slowly moved away. They cried out to him, at first cheerful, then complaining and begging; he did not listen. The black man, who would have immediately caught his repentance for his outcry, took him in and sought to reconcile him. A shoulder movement turned him back. Tadzio went down to the water. He was barefooted and wore his striped linen suit with a red loop."
"And now he still plays her the Impromptu in As-Dur by Franz Schubert, and Bach the Chromatische Fantasie, the Partita in e-Moll and the 3. Mozart’s B-dur piano concert. Then he nodded with his head in the rhythm, then he said, “That’s what, right?” Then he says: Artur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil. Between Bach and Mozart, she walked and saw the son’s cordos hanging on the linens in the bathroom. And in front of the mirror was the bottle with the perfume, after which the apartment smells so good, Chanel No. 5. Three toothbrushes in one cup. And on a hocker the woman's night shirt, thrown down negligently in the middle of everyday life. Come, dear May, and make the trees green again, the piano wishes at the end, but it is already July, outside the summer evening has become a summer night, the red wine bottle is empty. Are you hungry? So let’s go eat now. and yes."
"Without either of them losing a word about it, they direct the steps back home. Going home now also means for them: back to their home. From below you can see up to the still brightly illuminated windows."
"And so she did not let herself go away from her decision by the mother, who also seemed insecure in this room from a loud discomfort, soon silent, and the sister, by strength, helped to remove the castle. Well, the box could still be removed by Gregor in an emergency, but the desk had to remain. And the women hardly had to leave the room with the box on which they pressed, when Gregor throwed his head under the sofa to see how he could intervene carefully and carefully as possible. But unfortunately, it was the mother who first returned, while Grete kept the box covered in the bedroom and forced him alone, without naturally bringing him out of the place. But the mother was not accustomed to Gregor's sight, he could have made her sick, and so Gregor was frightened in the backward course to the other end of the sofa, but it could no longer prevent that the leinth move a little in front. That was enough to get the mother to mind. She stumbled, stood a moment quiet and then went back to Grete."
"And if even Gregory had probably lost his mobility by his wound forever, and had temporarily taken long, long minutes to pass through his room like an old disabled – to think of the cricket in the height was not possible – he received for this worsening of his condition a completely sufficient replacement, in his opinion, by the fact that every evening the door of the living room, which he used to watch sharply an hour or two before, was opened, so that, lying in the darkness of his room, from the living room invisibly, he could see the whole family at the illuminated table and hear their speeches, in a way with general permission, thus quite different from before."
"Our star, he says, should not fall into the Earth’s atmosphere, then it immediately fades. So the star is still in the sky, stuck to the firmament with a drawing purpose, like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks relieved. She is nicking. She says yes. He knows he’s making it hard for her so she has to say yes. Immortal Victims is the song that comes to mind. Whoever is allowed to offer the sacrifice is chosen."
"Maybe he just went out with her to get back. To have the illusion that it would also be everyday for them, what is so familiar to him. Of course, she goes into the living room, while he takes a second bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he comes into the room, she stands at the window. The window board is so low that it would be no art to climb out, she thinks. There, she says, someone else is awake. This is a good friend of us, he says, who paints. She probably heard that he said “of us.” He thinks she should know where she is. She turns to him. He holds a record in his hand, the cigarette hangs between his lips. Take the pipe out of your mouth, dog. Here is the Requiem. It doesn’t fit right now, she says. Now, she has said. The dead who lie on the earth do not sleep, but wait. Good music always fits, he says, and puts off the cigarette. So then, she says. He pulls the disc out of the shell and runs sachet with the brush over the reels before putting it on."
"When the cleaner comes, Katharina puts her on the couch, and when the room is clean, back on the floor. If she has to set up the bookkeepers, she pushes them aside. In their shelf there is no room for two large boxes. The basement was flooded. Should she just take them to the garbage as they are? she opens the top box and looks in. Then she brings him back."
"How beautiful even the grades are with such a fish, he says with a view of the grate teller, which reminds of a leghouse, but also of the large hall in the Natural History Museum, where the huge dinosaur skeleton is exhibited. As a child, I learned fishing from my grandfather. For a moment he sees her sitting on a slope with bumping legs and holding a catch in the water. What a power such a sentence has, he thinks. Send a picture into your head, whether you want it or not."
"We’ll only see each other from time to time, he says, but every time it’s like the first time – a party. She listened attentively and nodded. can only be your luxury, he says, because I am a married man. I know, she says. It may not be enough for you, he says, and that’s your good right. Directly she looks at him in the face, around her pupils is a yellow ring, he sees now. I have not only a marriage, but also a relationship with a woman on the radio. And if you had a thousand wives, she says, the important thing is the time we spend together. How can he ever beat her if she doesn’t ask for anything?The black loop with which she looks like an internship student touches him endlessly. If he doesn’t say what he has to say quickly, it will be too late. And we can’t publish with each other – I know and you know, that must be enough for us. That’s okay, she says and smiles. Where conditions are negotiated, there is something that remains. She was afraid yesterday and today all day that he would kick her out of her life right away."
"Will you come to my funeral? She looks down at the cup of coffee that stands in front of her and says nothing. Will you come to my funeral, he asks again. She says you are still alive. But he asks a third time: Will you come to my funeral? yes, she says, of course I will come to your funeral. A birch stands next to the place I chose. Beautiful, she says. Four months later, she is in Pittsburgh when she gets the news that he has died. It is her birthday, but even before the first congratulations from Europe, Ludwig calls her, his son, and says: Father has died today. On her birthday. When his funeral takes place, she is still in Pittsburgh."
"As he takes the wine out of the kitchen, she walks a few steps into the room and looks around. In front of the books are small figures and sheet toys, postcards are spread to the back of the book, photos are pinched on the boards: a small child, apparently the son, sitting on a pony, an empty landscape with clouds, a beautiful woman on a Hollywood swing, probably his wife, she laughs at the photographer who may have been him, Hans, so her husband, but through the eternity of the picture she now laughs at everyone who sees the photo, including her, the visitor to her husband. Behind her he now clirts with the glasses, he holds both in one hand, in the other he has the bottle, do we want to hear a little music? he asks and goes over into the living room. She says and follows."
"For the second time, and now finally, it was proved that this city was very harmful to him in this weather. Subtle persistence seemed unreasonable, and the prospect of a wind shaking seemed uncertain. It was a quick decision. Returning home was forbidden. Neither the summer nor winter quarter was ready to receive him. But not only here was there sea and beach, and elsewhere they found themselves without the evil ingredient of the lagoon and its fever damp. He remembered a small pool not far from Trieste, which he had boastfully called. And without delay, so that the new residence change is still worthwhile. He declared himself determined and stood up. At the nearest gondola stop, he took a vehicle and went through the dull labyrinth of the canals, under the graceful marble balconies flanked by lion paintings, to the slippery corners of the walls, past the mourning palace facades, reflecting the large firm signs in the waste-shung water. He had trouble getting there, for the gondolier, associated with cutting-edge factories and glass-blowers, tried everywhere to put him off for sightseeing and shopping, and when the bizarre journey through Venice began to exercise its magic, the business spirit of the fallen queen did what it wanted to do to frighten the mind again."
"There is no way back, neither to the wolf nor to the child. At the beginning of things is not innocence and simplicity; everything created, even the seemingly simplest, is already guilty, is already flattered, is thrown into the dirty stream of becoming and can never again, never again, swim upstream. The path to innocence, to the uncreated, to God leads not back, but forward, not to wolf or child, but ever further into guilt, ever deeper into incarnation. Even with suicide, poor step wolf, you will not be seriously served, you will already go the longer, more difficult and more difficult path of incarnation, you will have to multiply your duality many times, complicate your complexity even more. Instead of narrowing your world, simplifying your soul, you will become more and more world, you will eventually have to embrace the whole world into your painfully expanded soul, in order to come to rest at the end. This is the way of Buddha, every great man has gone, one knowing, the other unconscious, to the extent that he succeeded in the contest. Every birth means separation from the universe, means limitation, separation from God, suffering renewal. Return to space, abolition of suffering individuation, becoming God means having expanded his soul so that it can encompass the universe again."
"The characters in which you have disintegrated your so-called personality. Without characters I cannot play. He held a mirror before me, again I saw in it the unity of my person broken down into many egos, their number seemed to be still growing. But the figures were now very small, as large as handy chess figures, and the player took a few dozen of them with silent, secure fingerguns and placed them on the ground next to the chessboard. He spoke unambiguously, like a man who repeats a speech or lesson often held:"
"“You are a little boy. And just as you were too comfortable to learn to dance until it was almost too late, you were too comfortable to learn to love. Ideally and tragically love, O friend, you can do this excellently, I do not doubt all respect for it! The start is done, you can soon let go to a ball. Well, you still have to learn Boston, so we’ll start tomorrow. I come at three o’clock. How did you like the music here?”"
"“I am delighted, dear Harry, to be able to host you a little today. You’ve often been very tired of your life, you’ve been striving out of here, right? you’re longing to leave this time, this world, this reality and enter another reality, more suitable to you, a world without time. Do that, dear friend, I invite you to do so. You know where this other world is hidden, that it is the world of your own soul that you are looking for. Only within you lives that other reality that you long for. I cannot give you anything that does not already exist within you, I cannot open to you any other room except that of your soul. I can give you nothing but the opportunity, the push, the key. I help you make your own world visible, that’s all."
"“Have you understood a single word?” asked the prosecutor the parents, “does he not make himself a fool of us?” “For the sake of God,” the mother cried, “maybe he is seriously ill, and we are tormenting him. Grete! Grete!” she shouted. “Mother?” cried the sister from the other side. They went through Gregor’s room. “You need to go to the doctor right away. Greg is sick. Hurry to the doctor. Did you hear Gregor speak now?"" ""It was a animal voice,"" said the prosecutor, strikingly silent in the face of the mother's scream. “Anna!” cried the father through the front room into the kitchen and knocked in his hands, “pick a locker right away!” and the two girls ran through the front room with roaring shirts – how had the sister dressed up so quickly? – and ripped the door. They did not hear the door knock; they had probably left it open, as it is customary to be in houses where a great disaster has occurred."
"“Dear parents,” said the sister, knocking her hand on the table for the introduction, “that’s not how it goes. If you may not see it, I can see it. I don’t want to say my brother’s name before this beast, so I just say: we must try to get rid of it. We have tried to cultivate and tolerate it as humanly as possible, I think no one can blame us at all."
"“What has happened to me?” he thought. It was not a dream. His room, a real, but slightly too small human room, lay quietly between the four well-known walls. Above the table, on which a pattern collection of cloth was spread – Samsa was a traveler –, hanged the image he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and housed in a beautiful, golden frame. It depicted a lady sitting upright with a fur coat and a pelzboa, raising a heavy fur coat, in which her entire forearm had disappeared, towards the viewer."
