"When the charwoman came early in the morning—from sheer energy and impatience she always slammed all the doors, no matter how many times she had been asked not to, so it was impossible for anyone to sleep peacefully after her arrival—she found nothing unusual during her brief customary visit to Gregor’s room. She thought he was lying motionless on purpose, pretending to sulk; she imbued him with all manner of intelligence. Since she happened to be holding the long broom, she tried to tickle him from the doorway. When this produced no response she became annoyed and began to jab at Gregor; it was only when her shoves were met with no resistance and moved him from his place that she became alerted. She soon grasped the truth of the matter; her eyes went wide and she gave a low whistle but did not hesitate to tear open the Samsas’ bedroom door and yell into the dark: “Come and look at this , it’s croaked; it’s lying there, dead as a doornail!”"
"When there is silence where before there was sighing and lamentation, two bodies lie stretched out side by side in the dark. It will never be like this again, thinks Hans. It will always be this way, thinks Katharina. Then sleep puts an end to all thinking, and what happened to them both today is inscribed permanently — while they lie together, breathing peacefully — on each one’s cerebral cortex.  "
"She has a suitcase of her own, full of letters, carbons, and souvenirs, “flat product” for the most part, as the archivists like to say. Her own diaries and journals. The next day she climbs up the library steps and takes it down from the top shelf, it’s incredibly dusty inside and out. A long time ago, the papers in his boxes and those in her suitcase were speaking to each other. Now they’re both speaking to time. A suitcase like that, cardboard boxes like that, full of middles and endings and beginnings, buried under decades’ worth of dust; pages that were written to deceive alongside other pages that were striving for truth; things itemized, other things passed over, all lying together higgledy-piggledy; the contradictions and the denials, silent fury and mute adoration together in one envelope, in one folder; what is forgotten just as creased and yellowed as what, dimly or distinctly, one still remembers. While her hands pick up dust from the old folders, Katharina remembers how her father used to make guest appearances at childhood birthdays as a magician. He would throw a whole pack of playing cards up in the air, and still manage to pick out the one that she or one of the other children had chosen.  "
"As they passed the Operncafé, the skies grew dark, and when they reached the Kronprinzenpalais the storm broke, a flurry of rain blew at the passengers when the bus stopped on Marx-Engels-Platz and opened its doors. A lot of passengers pressed in to get out of the rain. And she, who had been by the door, was pushed into the middle."
"When he awakened from the affliction of this dream he was unnerved, shattered, and hopelessly under the power of the demon. He no longer avoided the inquisitive glances of other people; he did not care if he was exciting their suspicions. And as a matter of fact they were fleeing, travelling elsewhere. Numerous bathing houses stood empty, the occupants of the dining-hall became more and more scattered, and in the city now one rarely saw a foreigner. The truth seemed to have leaked out; the panic, despite the reticence of those whose interests were involved, seemed no longer avoidable. But the woman with the pearls remained with her family, either because the rumours had not yet reached her, or because she was too proud and fearless to heed them. Tadzio remained. And to Aschenbach, in his infatuation, it seemed at times as though flight and death might remove all the disturbing elements of life around them, and he stay here alone with the boy. Yes, by the sea in the forenoon when his eyes rested heavily, irresponsibly, unwaveringly on the thing he coveted, or when, as the day was ending, he followed shamelessly after him through streets where the hideous death lurked in secret—at such times the atrocious seemed to him rich in possibilities, and laws of morality had dropped away."
"The sky was grey, the wind damp. Harbour and islands had been left behind, and soon all land was lost in the haze. Flakes of coal dust, bloated with moisture, fell over the washed deck, which would not dry. After the first hour an awning was spread, since it had begun to rain."
"The sister rushed to the mother and cradled her forehead. The father’s thoughts seemed to have cleared in the aftermath of the sister’s words; he sat up straight, played with the cap of his uniform among the dishes that still lay on the table from the boarders’ supper, and from time to time glanced over at Gregor’s inert form."
"The doors closed again, the bus moved off, and she felt for a handhold.    And that’s when she saw him.    And he saw her.    Outside, there was now a veritable downpour, inside steam was rising from the wet clothes of the passengers who had just got on.    The next stop was the Alex; the stop itself was under the S-Bahn overpass."
"Though I saw Hermine only for the second time that day, she knew everything about me and it seemed to me quite impossible that I could ever have a secret from her. Perhaps she might not understand everything of my spiritual life, might not perhaps follow me in my relation to music, to Goethe, to Novalis or Baudelaire. This too, however, was open to question. Probably it would give her as little trouble as the rest. And anyway, what was there left of my spiritual life? Hadn't all that gone to atoms and lost its meaning? As for the rest, my more personal problems and concerns, I had no doubt that she would understand them all. I should very soon be talking to her about the Steppenwolf and the treatise and all the rest of it, though till now it had existed for myself alone and never been mentioned to a single soul. Indeed, I could not resist the temptation of beginning forthwith."
"Once, approximately a month after Gregor’s transformation, when there was no reason for the sister to be especially alarmed at his appearance, she came a little earlier than usual and caught Gregor perfectly still, gazing out the window, thus giving him a particularly frightful aspect. It would not have surprised Gregor if she had not come in, as his position prevented her from immediately opening the window, but not only did she not enter, she actually jumped back and shut the door; a stranger could easily have thought Gregor had been lying in wait for her and meant to bite her. Gregor naturally hid himself at once under the sofa but had to wait until noon for the sister’s return, and then she seemed much more uneasy than usual. He concluded that the sight of him was still repulsive to her and was bound to remain repulsive, and that she must have exercised great self-control not to take flight at the sight of even the smallest portion of his body protruding from under the couch. To spare her from even these glimpses, he dragged the sheet to the sofa on his back one day—this required four hours’ work—and laid it in such a way as to conceal himself entirely, so the sister could not see him even if she stooped down. If she did not find the sheet necessary, she certainly could have removed it, because it was clear enough that Gregor could not possibly be pleased by his total confinement, but she left the sheet as it was, and Gregor imagined he caught a grateful look once when he cautiously raised the sheet a little with his head to see how the sister was taking the new arrangement."
"He pours her wine, white to go with her trout, and notices that a fish holds no terrors for her. She sees his spectacle case on the table, and his cigarettes, make of Duet, and she thinks she never wants to sit at a table that doesn’t have his spectacle case and cigarettes on it."
"Tired out by the confusion of this strange forenoon, he distributed the contents of his hand-bag about the room and dropped into an arm-chair by the open window. The sea had become a pale green, the air seemed thinner and purer; the beach, with its cabins and boats, seemed to have colour, although the sky was still grey. Aschenbach looked out, his hands folded in his lap; he was content to be back, but shook his head disapprovingly at his irresolution, his failure to know his own mind. He sat here for the better part of an hour, resting and dreaming vaguely. About noon he saw Tadzio in a striped linen suit with a red tie, coming back from the sea across the private beach and along the boardwalk to the hotel. Aschenbach recognized him from this altitude before he had actually set eyes on him; he was about to think some such words as ""Well, Tadzio, there you are again!"" but at the same moment he felt this careless greeting go dumb before the truth in his heart. He felt the exhilaration of his blood, a conflict of pain and pleasure, and he realized that it was Tadzio who had made it so difficult for him to leave."
"It feels good to be walking beside him, she thinks.    It feels good to be walking beside her, he thinks.    A twenty-minute walk through the night. He knows the place well, he’s been here umpteen times, the waiter seats him, as he always does, at the corner table, the one reserved for regulars."
"It was a rousing song which the recluse never recalled having heard before, a ""big number"" in incomprehensible dialect, with a laugh refrain in which the troupe joined regularly at the tops of their voices. At this point both the words and the accompaniment of the instruments stopped, with nothing left but a laugh which was somehow arranged rhythmically although very naturally done—and the soloist especially showed great talent in giving it a most deceptive vitality. At the renewal of his professional distance from the audience he had recovered all his boldness again, and the artificial laugh that he directed up towards the terrace was derisive. Even before the end of the articulate portion of the strophe, he seemed to struggle against an irresistible tickling. He gulped, his voice trembled, he pressed his hand over his mouth, he contorted his shoulders; and at the proper moment the ungovernable laugh broke out of him, burst into such real cackles that it was infectious and communicated itself to the audience, so that on the terrace also an unfounded hilarity, living off itself alone, started up. But this seemed to double the singer's exuberance. He bent his knees, he slapped his thighs, he nearly split himself; he no longer laughed, he shrieked. He pointed up with his finger, as though nothing were more comic than the laughing guests there, and finally everyone in the garden and on the verandah was laughing, even to the waiters, bell boys, and house-servants in the doorways."
"At five in the morning, ten o’clock in Berlin, she gets up in time for the beginning of the ceremony, sets a candle on the hotel tabletop, lights it, and plays music for him from YouTube.  The second movement of Mozart’s D-minor Piano Concerto, K. 466.  The aria from Bach’s Goldberg Variations.  The A-minor Chopin Mazurka.  Each piece comes with commercial interruptions.  The new Hyundai. A bank offering home loans. A cold cure.  When she returns to Berlin six weeks later, she sees the fresh sandpile next to the birch tree. The roses she got a friend to lay on the grave have already been cleared away. Her friend tells her all about the ceremony. And the music that was played.  What music was it?  Mozart, Bach, and Chopin, her friend says.  She nods.  Six months later, her husband is home by himself when a woman turns up and delivers two large cardboard boxes.  She was crying, he says, I had to give her a handkerchief.  The cardboard boxes are left standing around in Katharina’s study into the fall."
"The Ganymede on Schiffbauerdamm is where his wife told him she was expecting. The Ganymede, where he and his editor celebrated the completion of his first manuscript. And now he’s standing there waiting for a nineteen-year-old girl.    Yesterday and all today the nineteen-year-old remembered his eyes, his nose, his shoulders. But of the way the whole thing looks when assembled she’s perhaps less sure. She walks briskly towards her recollection.  "
"Returning to the hotel, he went immediately to the periodical stand in the lobby and ran through the papers. He found nothing in the foreign language press. The domestic press spoke of rumours, produced hazy statistics, repeated official denials and questioned their truthfulness. This explained the departure of the German and Austrian guests. Obviously, the subjects of the other nations knew nothing, suspected nothing, were not yet uneasy. "" To keep it quiet!"" Aschenbach thought angrily, as he threw the papers back on the table. "" To keep that quiet!"" But at the same moment he was filled with satisfaction over the adventure that was to befall the world about him. For passion, like crime, is not suited to the secure daily rounds of order and well-being; and every slackening in the bourgeois structure, every disorder and affliction of the world, must be held welcome, since they bring with them a vague promise of advantage. So Aschenbach felt a dark contentment with what was taking place, under cover of the authorities, in the dirty alleys of Venice. This wicked secret of the city was welded with his own secret, and he too was involved in keeping it hidden. For in his infatuation he cared about nothing but the possibility of Tadzio's leaving, and he realized with something like terror that he would not know how to go on living if this occurred."
"Kairos, the god of fortunate moments, is supposed to have a lock of hair on his forehead, which is the only way of grasping hold of him. Because once the god has slipped past on his winged feet, the back of his head is sleek and hairless, nowhere to grab hold of. Was it a fortunate moment, then, when she, just nineteen, first met Hans? One day in early November, she sits down on the floor and prepares herself to sift — sheet by sheet, folder by folder — through the contents of the first box, then the second. It's so much detritus. The oldest items date back to ’86, the latest are from '92. There are letters and carbons of letters, scribbled notes, shopping lists, desk diaries, photo prints and negatives, postcards, collages, a few newspaper clippings. A sugar cube (from the Kranzler Café) disintegrates in her fingers. Pressed flower petals slip out from between pages, passport photographs stay pinned to pieces of paper, there’s a twist of hair in a matchbox."
"He ingratiatingly regretted the episode, spoke of it as highly painful to him and the establishment, but firmly approved of Aschenbach's decision to wait here for the baggage. Of course his room had been given up, but there was another one, just as good, which he could occupy immediately. "" Pas de chance, Monsieur,"" the Swiss elevator boy smiled as they were ascending. And so the fugitive was established again, in a room almost identical to the other in its location and furnishings."
"He has deliberately chosen one of the larger tables, group of three, he said to the headwaiter. And now that he’s clued her in, they look up from time to time to see what’s keeping their third. For a first course, he has explained, she has to have the Bernese butter bouillon, because that comes with a quail’s egg in it. So they are sipping their Bernese butter bouillon, each lifting the quail’s egg in their spoon, marveling at the little wonder. I quail, you quail, she it quails, he says, and looks at her expectantly. She looks back at him. It’s the first word in their shared vocabulary. And he’s brought her one of his books, so that she can see the sort of things he writes. His first present to her. She should wait before looking at the dedication. Time to look across to the entrance again and shake their heads — what’s keeping their unpunctual friend? They are in cahoots, they have their first secrets to keep from the world, they both know what they’re thinking about when they look at each other. And that’s why it’s important that he sets some conditions, before it’s too late."
"After a few years of unrest, a few tentative stopping-places here and there, he soon chose Munich as his permanent home, and lived there in a state of middle-class respectability such as fits in with the life of the mind in certain individual instances. The marriage which, when still young, he had contracted with a girl of an educated family came to an end with her death after a short period of happiness. He was left with a daughter, now married. He had never had a son."
"Lately he had not been relying simply on good luck and the daily routine for his chances to be near the boy and look at him. He pursued him, stalked him. On Sundays, for instance, the Poles never appeared on the beach. He guessed that they must be attending mass at San Marco. He hurried there; and stepping from the heat of the square into the golden twilight of the church, he found the boy he was hunting, bowed over a prie-dieu, praying. Then he stood in the background, on the cracked mosaic floor, with people on all sides kneeling, murmuring, and making the sign of the cross. And the compact grandeur of this oriental temple weighed heavily on his senses. In front, the richly ornamented priest was conducting the office, moving about and singing; incense poured forth, clouding the weak little flame of the candle on the altar—and with the sweet, stuffy sacrificial odour another seemed to commingle faintly: the smell of the infested city. But through the smoke and the sparkle Aschenbach saw how the boy there in front turned his head, hunted him out, and looked at him."
"He often lay there through the whole night, not sleeping a wink, just scrabbling on the leather for hours. Or, not shying from the great effort, he would push a chair over to the window, climb up to the sill, and lean, propped up on the chair, against the windowpanes, evidently in some vague remembrance of the freedom he had once found in gazing out. For actually he now saw things just a short distance away becoming dimmer each day; he could no longer make out the hospital opposite, whose sight he used to curse for having seen it all too often, and if he were not so certain that he lived on the quiet but decidedly urban Charlotte Street, he could have believed that he was gazing out the window at a barren wasteland where the ashen sky merged indistinguishably with the gray earth. The observant sister had needed to notice the chair standing by the window only twice; whenever she straightened the room after that, she carefully replaced the chair at the window and now even left the inner casements open."
"He was already out so far that he could barely keep his balance while vigorously rocking, and very soon he would have to decide one way or the other, because in five minutes it would be a quarter past seven—then the doorbell rang. “That’s someone from the office,” he said to himself, and slightly stiffened although his legs only danced more wildly. Everything was still for a moment. “They’re not going to answer,” Gregor said to himself, clinging to some absurd hope. But then of course the maid marched sharply to the door as usual and opened it. Gregor needed only to hear the visitor’s first words of greeting to know who it was—the head clerk himself. Why was Gregor condemned to serve at a firm where the smallest infraction was seized upon with the gravest suspicion; was each and every employee a scoundrel; was there no loyal and dedicated man serving them who, having spent several hours of the morning not devoted to the firm, might become so overcome by pangs of remorse as to be actually unable to get out of bed? Would it not have been enough to send an apprentice to inquire— if any inquiry were actually necessary; did the head clerk himself have to come, and did the whole innocent family have to be shown that only the head clerk could be entrusted to investigate this suspicious matter? And owing more to the anxiety these thoughts caused Gregor than to any real decision, he swung himself with all his might out of the bed. There was a loud thud but not really a crash. The fall was broken somewhat by the carpet, and his back was more flexible than Gregor had thought, so there resulted only a relatively unobtrusive thump. However, he had not been careful enough about raising his head and had banged it; he twisted it and rubbed it against the carpet in pain and aggravation."
"She knows to lay the napkin over her knees before starting to eat, knows to dab her mouth on it before taking a drink, knows to angle the soup plate away from herself, not to put her elbows on the table and not to cut the potatoes with her knife. With all her fears, her hopes, everything that can’t be foreseen and that she doesn’t want to foresee, it helps that she knows that knife and fork should be laid down on the right of the plate, side by side, to indicate that she has finished with them. Face-to-face with the man sitting opposite — a great happiness, a great unhappiness, and a question mark — she appreciates that this is the beginning of her life, for which everything so far has been mere preparation.    He thinks she looks lovely even with her mouth full."
"Such were the thoughts, utterly useless in his present condition, that went through his head as he stood listening, glued to the door. Sometimes, from general weariness he could listen no longer and carelessly let his head slump against the door, but he promptly recovered because even the small noise he had made had been heard in the next room and had silenced them all. “ What’s he up to now?” the father said after a while, obviously turning toward the door, and only then did the interrupted conversation resume."
"Tadzio, with the three or four companions still left, was moving about to the right in front of his family's cabin. And midway between the sea and the row of bathing houses, lying back in his chair with a robe over his knees, Aschenbach looked at him once more. The game, which was not being supervised since the women were probably occupied with preparations for the journey, seemed to have no rules, and it was degenerating. The stocky boy with the sleek black hair who was called Jaschu had been angered and blinded by sand flung in his face. He forced Tadzio into a wrestling match which quickly ended in the fall of the beauty, who was weaker. But as though in the hour of parting the servile feelings of the inferior had turned to merciless brutality and were trying to get vengeance for a long period of slavery, the victor did not let go of the boy underneath, but knelt on his back and pressed his face so persistently into the sand that Tadzio, already breathless from the struggle, was in danger of strangling. His attempts to shake off the weight were fitful; for moments they stopped entirely and were resumed again as mere twitchings. Enraged, Aschenbach was about to spring to the rescue, when the torturer finally released his victim. Tadzio, very pale, raised himself halfway and sat motionless for several minutes, resting on one arm, with rumpled hair and glowering eyes. Then he stood up completely, and moved slowly away. They called him, cheerfully at first, then anxiously and imploringly; he did not listen. The swarthy boy, who seemed to regret his excesses immediately afterwards, caught up with him and tried to placate him. A movement of the shoulder put him at his distance. Tadzio went down obliquely to the water. He was barefoot, and wore his striped linen suit with the red bow."
"After that, he plays the Impromptu in A-flat Major by Schubert, and Bach’s Chromatic Fantasy, the Partita in E Minor, and the third movement of Mozart’s B-flat Piano Concerto. Sometimes he nods his head in time, sometimes he says: Isn’t that extraordinary? Sometimes it’s she who says: This is beautiful. Sometimes she asks: Who is playing now? And he answers: Artur Rubinstein, Glenn Gould, Clara Haskil, as the case might be. Between the Bach and the Mozart, she had to go out to pee and in the bathroom, she saw his son’s cord jeans hanging up to dry. In front of the mirror is the little bottle with the perfume that makes the apartment smell so nice, Chanel No. 5. And three toothbrushes in one mug. And the wife’s nightie dropped on a stool and — why not — left there. Come, darling May, and put the buds back on the trees, the piano wishes at the end, but it’s July now, the summer evening outside has turned into a summer night, the bottle of wine is empty. Do you feel hungry? Sure. Then let’s go eat. Sure."
"And now?    Without so much as a word of consultation, they direct their feet towards home. Home — that for her already means: back to his house.    From the street, they look up at the windows where he has left the lights on.  "
"And so she refused to be shaken from her resolve by the mother, who seemed extremely anxious and unsure of herself in this room and soon quieted and helped the sister, to the best of her abilities, to push the bureau outside. Now, in a pinch Gregor could do without the bureau but the desk must absolutely stay. And no sooner had the women left the room, grunting and heaving with the bureau, than Gregor poked his head out from under the sofa to ascertain how he could cautiously and tactfully intervene. But as luck would have it, it was the mother who returned first while Grete was still in the next room with her arms around the bureau, rocking it and trying to shift it on her own but naturally not budging it an inch. The mother, however, was unaccustomed to Gregor’s appearance and it might have sickened her; so Gregor panicked and scuttled back to the other end of the sofa, but he could not prevent the sheet from stirring a little in front. This was enough to catch the mother’s eye. She froze, stood still for a beat, then retreated to Grete."
"And now, although Gregor had lost some mobility, most likely permanently due to his injury, and traversing his room now took many long minutes like an old invalid—crawling above floor level was out of the question—he was granted, in his mind, entirely satisfactory compensation for this deterioration of his condition: toward evening every day the living room door, which he got used to watching intently for an hour or two beforehand, was opened, so that lying in the darkness of his room and unseen from the living room, he could view the whole family at the brightly lit table and could listen to their conversation more or less with their consent, completely unlike his prior eavesdropping."
"Our star, he says, mustn’t stray into earth’s atmosphere, because it will burn up immediately. So the star is in the sky, pinned to the firmament like the photos on his bookshelf, she thinks, relieved. She nods. Yes, she says. He knows he is making difficulties in order to secure her agreement. “Immortal Victims” is the name of the song he is thinking of. The sacrificial victim is the chosen one."
"Perhaps the only reason he went out with her was to be able to return home. To have the illusion that what is familiar to him is unexceptional for her too. She makes her way almost automatically to the living room while he fetches another bottle of wine from the kitchen. When he walks in, she’s standing by the window. The sill is so low it would be easy to tip out, she thinks. Look, there’s someone else awake, across the way, she says. He’s a good friend of ours, he says, a painter. She no doubt picks up on the possessive, “ours.” He thinks, she needs to know what she’s up against here. She turns to face him. He is holding a record in one hand, the cigarette is dangling from his lips. Take the pipe out of your mouth, you cad. This is the Requiem. Not very appropriate for now, she says. For now, she said. The dead who lie in the ground are not sleeping but waiting. Good music is always appropriate, he says, and sets down his cigarette. All right, she says. He slides the record out of its sleeve and brushes the surface with the soft cloth before putting the needle down."
"Each time the cleaning lady comes, Katharina moves them onto the sofa and once the room’s been cleaned, she puts them back on the floor. When she needs to use the library steps, she pushes them aside. She has no space on her shelves for two large cardboard boxes. The basement flooded recently. Maybe she should just take them to the dump? She opens one of them and looks inside. Shuts it again."
"Aren’t fish bones beautiful, he says, looking at the bones on the side plate, reminiscent of an ossuary, but also of the great hall in the Natural History Museum, where they have the enormous dinosaur skeleton.    My grandfather used to take me fishing when I was little, she says.    He has a sudden vision of her sitting on a pier, bare legs dangling, holding a fishing rod. The power of a simple sentence like that, he thinks. Makes you see something, whether you want to or not.  "
"We will only see each other occasionally, he says, but each time will be like our first time — a celebration. She listens to him attentively and nods. I can only be a luxury for you, because I am a married man. I know, she says. Perhaps that won’t be enough for you, he says. I understand that. She looks him straight in the face, there is a ring of yellow around her pupils, he now sees. I’m not just married, I’m also in a relationship with a woman who works in radio. If you had a thousand women, she says, all that matters is the time that we get to spend together. How can he ever refuse her anything, if she doesn’t demand anything? The black velvet ribbon moves him, it makes her look like a schoolgirl. If he doesn’t manage to say quickly what he needs to say, it’ll be too late. And you can’t expect any sort of public acknowledgment — I know, and you know, and that will have to do. That’s fine, she says, and smiles. Where terms and conditions are set, there is a future. All yesterday and today she was afraid he would just toss her out."
"Will you come to my funeral?  She looks down at her coffee cup in front of her and says nothing.  Will you come to my funeral, he says again.  Why funeral — you’re alive, she says.  He asks her a third time: Will you come to my funeral?  Sure, she says, I’ll come to your funeral.  I’ve got a plot with a birch tree next to it.  Nice for you, she says.  Four months later, she’s in Pittsburgh when she gets news of his death.  It’s her birthday, but before she gets any congratulatory calls from Europe, she gets his son Ludwig on the phone, saying: Dad died today.  On her birthday.  The day of his funeral, she’s still in Pittsburgh."
"While he’s in the kitchen getting the wine, she takes a few steps around his study and looks. There are little figurines and toys in front of the books, postcards propped against the spines, photographs pinned to the shelving: a little kid, no doubt the son, sitting on a pony, a bare landscape under clouds, a beautiful-looking woman on a swing seat, presumably the wife, smiling at the photographer, who may have been her husband, Hans, but because of the eternal present of photography this woman is smiling at everyone and anyone who sees the picture, including now herself, visiting the husband. Behind her he is jingling with glasses, two in one hand, a bottle of red in the other. Some music? he asks and crosses into the living room. Yes, she says, following him."
"For the second and last time it had been demonstrated that this city in this kind of weather was decidedly unhealthy for him. It seemed foolish to attempt a stubborn resistance, while the prospects for a change of wind were completely uncertain. A quick decision was called for. It was not possible to go home this soon. Neither summer nor winter quarters were prepared to receive him. But this was not the only place where there were sea and beach; and elsewhere these could be found without the lagoon and its malarial mists. He remembered a little watering place not far from Trieste which had been praised to him. Why not there? And without delay, so that this new change of location would still have time to do him some good. He pronounced this as good as settled, and stood up. At the next gondola station he took a boat back to San Marco, and was led through the dreary labyrinth of canals, under fancy marble balconies flanked with lions, around the corners of smooth walls, past the sorrowing façades of palaces which mirrored large dilapidated business-signs in the pulsing water. He had trouble arriving there, for the gondolier, who was in league with lace-makers and glass-blowers, was always trying to land him for inspections and purchases; and just as the bizarre trip through Venice would begin to cast its spell, the greedy business sense of the sunken Queen did all it could to destroy the illusion."
"There is, in fact, no way back either to the wolf or to the child. From the very start there is no innocence and no singleness. Every created thing, even the simplest, is already guilty, already multiple. It has been thrown into the muddy stream of being and may never more swim back again to its source. The way to innocence, to the uncreated and to God leads on, not back, not back to the wolf or to the child, but ever further into sin, ever deeper into human life. Nor will suicide really solve your problem, unhappy Steppenwolf. You will, instead, embark on the longer and wearier and harder road of life. You will have to multiply many times your two-fold being and complicate your complexities still further. Instead of narrowing your world and simplifying your soul, you will have to absorb more and more of the world and at last take all of it up in your painfully expanded soul, if you are ever to find peace. This is the road that Buddha and every great man has gone, whether consciously or not, insofar as fortune favored his quest. All births mean separation from the All, the confinement within limitation, the separation from God, the pangs of being born ever anew. The return into the All, the dissolution of painful individuation, the reunion with God means the expansion of the soul until it is able once more to embrace the All."
"""Of the pieces into which you saw your so-called personality broken up. I can't play without pieces."" He held a glass up to me and again I saw the unity of my personality broken up into many selves whose number seemed even to have increased. The pieces were now, however, very small, about the size of chessmen. The player took a dozen or so of them in his sure and quiet fingers and placed them on the ground near the board. As he did so he began to speak in the monotonous way of one who goes through a recitation or reading that he has often gone through before."
"""You're a child. You were too lazy to learn to dance till it was nearly too late, and in the same way you were too lazy to learn to love. As for ideal and tragic love, that, I don't doubt, you can do marvellously—and all honor to you. Now you will learn to love a little in an ordinary human way. We have made a start. You will soon be fit to go to a ball, but you must know the Boston first, and we'll begin on that tomorrow. I'll come at three. How did you like the music, by the way?"""
"""It is a pleasure to me, my dear Harry, to have the privilege of being your host in a small way on this occasion. You have often been sorely weary of your life. You were striving, were you not, for escape? You have a longing to forsake this world and its reality and to penetrate to a reality more native to you, to a world beyond time. You know, of course, where this other world lies hidden. It is the world of your own soul that you seek. Only within yourself exists that other reality for which you long. I can give you nothing that has not already its being within yourself. I can throw open to you no picture gallery but your own soul. All I can give you is the opportunity, the impulse, the key. I can help you to make your own world visible. That is all."""
"“Did you understand even a word?” the head clerk asked the parents. “He isn’t making fools of us?” “For God’s sake,” cried the mother, already weeping, “maybe he is seriously ill and we’re tormenting him. Grete! Grete!” she then screamed. “Mother?” called the sister from the other side. They were communicating across Gregor’s room. “You must go for the doctor immediately. Gregor is sick. Run for the doctor. Did you just hear Gregor speak?” “That was the voice of an animal,” said the head clerk, in a noticeably low tone compared to the mother’s shrieking. “Anna! Anna!” yelled the father through the foyer to the kitchen, clapping his hands, “go get a locksmith at once!” And already the two girls were running through the foyer with a rustling of skirts—how had the sister dressed so quickly?—and throwing open the house door. The door could not be heard closing; they must have left it open as is usual in houses visited by great misfortune.3"
"“My dear parents,” said the sister, pounding the table with her hand by way of introduction, “things can’t go on like this. Maybe you don’t realize it, but I do. I refuse to pronounce my brother’s name in front of this monstrosity, and so I say: We have to try to get rid of it. We’ve done everything humanly possible to care for it and tolerate it; I don’t believe anyone could reproach us.”"
"“What has happened to me?” he thought. It was no dream. His room, a regular human bedroom, if a little small, lay quiet between the four familiar walls. Above the desk, on which a collection of fabric samples was unpacked and spread out—Samsa was a traveling salesman—hung the picture that he had recently cut out of an illustrated magazine and put in a pretty gilt frame. It showed a lady, sitting upright, dressed in a fur hat and fur boa; her entire forearm had vanished into a thick fur muff which she held out to the viewer.2"
